---
id: 19c__V$XSTREAM_MESSAGE_TRACKING
name: V$XSTREAM_MESSAGE_TRACKING
object_type: data_dictionary_view
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: database_reference
category: general
tags: [dynamic_performance]
source_file: V-XSTREAM_MESSAGE_TRACKING.html
---

# V$XSTREAM_MESSAGE_TRACKING

V$XSTREAM_MESSAGE_TRACKING displays information about LCRs tracked through the stream that are processed by XStream components.

## Columns

| Column | Type | Description |
|--------|------|-------------|
| TRACKING_LABEL | VARCHAR2(128) |  |
| TAG | RAW(30) |  |
| COMPONENT_NAME | VARCHAR2(128) |  |
| COMPONENT_TYPE | VARCHAR2(128) |  |
| ACTION | VARCHAR2(50) |  |
| ACTION_DETAILS | VARCHAR2(100) |  |
| TIMESTAMP | TIMESTAMP(9) WITH TIME ZONE |  |
| MESSAGE_CREATION_TIME | DATE |  |
| MESSAGE_NUMBER | NUMBER |  |
| TRACKING_ID | RAW(16) |  |
| SOURCE_DATABASE_NAME | VARCHAR2(128) |  |
| OBJECT_OWNER | VARCHAR2(128) |  |
| OBJECT_NAME | VARCHAR2(128) |  |
| XID | VARCHAR2(128) |  |
| COMMAND_TYPE | VARCHAR2(128) |  |
| MESSAGE_POSITION | RAW(64) |  |
| CON_ID | NUMBER |  |

## Usage Notes

You can track an LCR through a stream using one of the following methods: Set the message_tracking_frequency capture process parameter to 1 or another relatively low value for XStream Outbound processes. Set the message_tracking_frequency apply process parameter to 1 or another relatively low value for XStream Inbound processes. Use the DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM.SET_MESSAGE_TRACKING procedure to specify a tracking label that becomes part of each LCR generated by the current session. When the actions parameter in the DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM.SET_MESSAGE_TRACKING procedure is set to DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM.ACTION_MEMORY , information about the LCRs is tracked in memory, and this view is populated with information about the LCRs. Currently, DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM.ACTION_MEMORY is the only valid setting for the actions parameter in the procedure. Note: This view does not display information about messages flowing in an Oracle GoldenGate configuration. To view information about such message streams, query the V$GOLDENGATE_MESSAGE_TRACKING view. Note: This view does not display information about messages flowing in an Oracle GoldenGate configuration. To view information about such message streams, query the V$GOLDENGATE_MESSAGE_TRACKING view. See Also: " V$GOLDENGATE_MESSAGE_TRACKING " Oracle Database PL/SQL Packages and Types Reference for more information about the DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM package Oracle Database XStream Guide for more information about XStream concepts See Also: " V$GOLDENGATE_MESSAGE_TRACKING " Oracle Database PL/SQL Packages and Types Reference for more information about the DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM package Oracle Database XStream Guide for more information about XStream concepts