---
id: 19c__AUDIT_TRAIL
name: AUDIT_TRAIL
object_type: data_dictionary_view
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: database_reference
category: auditing
source_file: AUDIT_TRAIL.html
---

# AUDIT_TRAIL

AUDIT_TRAIL enables or disables database auditing.

## Usage Notes

Note: In an Oracle database that has migrated to unified auditing, the setting of this parameter has no effect. See Oracle Database Security Guide for more information about unified auditing. See Oracle Database Upgrade Guide for more information about migrating to unified auditing. Note: In an Oracle database that has migrated to unified auditing, the setting of this parameter has no effect. See Oracle Database Security Guide for more information about unified auditing. See Oracle Database Upgrade Guide for more information about migrating to unified auditing. none Disables standard auditing. This value is the default if the AUDIT_TRAIL parameter was not set in the initialization parameter file or if you created the database using a method other than Database Configuration Assistant. If you created the database using Database Configuration Assistant, then the default is db . os Directs all audit records to an operating system file. Oracle recommends that you use the os setting, particularly if you are using an ultra-secure database configuration. db Directs audit records to the database audit trail (the SYS.AUD$ table), except for records that are always written to the operating system audit trail. Use this setting for a general database for manageability. If the database was started in read-only mode with AUDIT_TRAIL set to db , then Oracle Database internally sets AUDIT_TRAIL to os . Check the alert log for details. db, extended Performs all actions of AUDIT_TRAIL = db , and also populates the SQL bind and SQL text CLOB-type columns of the SYS.AUD$ table, when available. These two columns are populated only when this parameter is specified. When standard auditing is used with DB, EXTENDED , then virtual private database (VPD) predicates and policy names are also populated in the SYS.AUD$ table. If the database was started in read-only mode with AUDIT_TRAIL set to db, extended , then Oracle Database internally sets AUDIT_TRAIL to os . Check the alert log for details. xml Writes to the operating system audit record file in XML format. Records all elements of the AuditRecord node except Sql_Text and Sql_Bind to the operating system XML audit file. xml, extended Performs all actions of AUDIT_TRAIL = xml , and includes SQL text and SQL bind information in the audit trail. You can use the SQL AUDIT statement to set auditing options regardless of the setting of this parameter. In a CDB, the scope of the settings for this initialization parameter is the CDB. Although the audit trail is provided per PDB in a CDB, this initialization parameter cannot be configured for individual PDBs. The following statement sets the db, extended value for the AUDIT_TRAIL parameter. The new value takes effect after the database is restarted. SQL> alter system set AUDIT_TRAIL=db, extended scope=spfile; System altered. SQL> The following statement sets the xml, extended value for the AUDIT_TRAIL parameter. The new value takes effect after the database is restarted. SQL> alter system set AUDIT_TRAIL=xml, extended scope=spfile; System altered. SQL> The following statement sets the db value for the AUDIT_TRAIL parameter. The new value takes effect after the database is restarted. SQL> alter system set AUDIT_TRAIL=db scope=spfile; System altered. SQL> See Also: Oracle Database Security Guide for information about configuring unified audit policies Oracle Database Upgrade Guide to learn more about traditional non-unified auditing See Also: Oracle Database Security Guide for information about configuring unified audit policies Oracle Database Upgrade Guide to learn more about traditional non-unified auditing