---
id: 19c__DBMS_METADATA.SET_TRANSFORM_PARAM
name: DBMS_METADATA.SET_TRANSFORM_PARAM
object_type: plsql_subprogram
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_METADATA
tags: [dbms_metadata]
source_file: DBMS_METADATA.html
---

# DBMS_METADATA.SET_TRANSFORM_PARAM

These procedures are used for both retrieval and submission. SET_TRANSFORM_PARAM and SET_REMAP_PARAM specify parameters to the XSLT stylesheet identified by transform_handle .

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_METADATA.SET_TRANSFORM_PARAM (
   transform_handle   IN NUMBER,
   name               IN VARCHAR2,
   value              IN VARCHAR2,
   object_type        IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL);

DBMS_METADATA.SET_TRANSFORM_PARAM (
   transform_handle   IN NUMBER,
   name               IN VARCHAR2,
   value              IN BOOLEAN DEFAULT TRUE,
   object_type        IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL);

DBMS_METADATA.SET_TRANSFORM_PARAM (
   transform_handle   IN NUMBER,
   name               IN VARCHAR2,
   value              IN NUMBER,
   object_type        IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL);

DBMS_METADATA.SET_REMAP_PARAM (
   transform_handle   IN NUMBER,
   name               IN VARCHAR2,
   old_value          IN VARCHAR2,
   new_value          IN VARCHAR2,
   object_type        IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL);
```

## Usage Notes

Use them to modify or customize the output of the transform. See Also: For more information about related subprograms: Subprograms for Retrieving Multiple Objects From the Database Subprograms for Submitting XML to the Database See Also: For more information about related subprograms: Subprograms for Retrieving Multiple Objects From the Database Subprograms for Submitting XML to the Database Syntax DBMS_METADATA.SET_TRANSFORM_PARAM ( transform_handle IN NUMBER, name IN VARCHAR2, value IN VARCHAR2, object_type IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL); DBMS_METADATA.SET_TRANSFORM_PARAM ( transform_handle IN NUMBER, name IN VARCHAR2, value IN BOOLEAN DEFAULT TRUE, object_type IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL); DBMS_METADATA.SET_TRANSFORM_PARAM ( transform_handle IN NUMBER, name IN VARCHAR2, value IN NUMBER, object_type IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL); DBMS_METADATA.SET_REMAP_PARAM ( transform_handle IN NUMBER, name IN VARCHAR2, old_value IN VARCHAR2, new_value IN VARCHAR2, object_type IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL); Parameters Table 107-22 describes the parameters for the SET_TRANSFORM_PARAM and SET_REMAP_PARAM procedures. Because new parameters are occasionally added, you might want to query the DBMS_METADATA_TRANSFORM_PARAMS view to see all the valid transform parameters for each transform or to find valid transform parameters for specific object types. Table 107-22 SET_TRANSFORM_PARAM and SET_REMAP_PARAM Parameters Parameters Description transform_handle Either (1) the handle returned from ADD_TRANSFORM , or (2) the enumerated constant SESSION_TRANSFORM that designates the DDL transform for the whole session. Note that the handle returned by OPEN is not a valid transform handle. For SET_REMAP_PARAM , the transform handle must designate the MODIFY transform. name The name of the transform parameter. For descriptions of the parameters available for each transform on the SET_TRANSFORM_PARAM procedure, see the following: Table 107-23 - DDL transform Table 107-24 - MODIFY transform Table 107-26 - SXML transform Table 107-27 - MODIFYSXML transform Table 107-28 - SXMLDDL transform For descriptions of the parameters available for the MODIFY transform on the SET_REMAP_PARAM procedure, see Table 107-25 . For descriptions of the parameters available for the ALTERXML transform, see Table 107-4 . value The value of the transform. This parameter is valid only for SET_TRANSFORM_PARAM . old_value The old value for the remapping. This parameter is valid only for SET_REMAP_PARAM . new_value The new value for the remapping. This parameter is valid only for SET_REMAP_PARAM . object_type Designates the object type to which the transform or remap parameter applies. By default, it applies to the same object type as the transform. In cases where the transform applies to all object types within a heterogeneous collection, the following apply: If object_type is omitted, the parameter applies to all applicable object types within the heterogeneous collection. If object_type is specified, the parameter only applies to that object type. This allows a caller who has added a transform to a heterogeneous collection to specify different transform parameters for different object types within the collection. Table 107-23 describes the object type, name, datatype, and meaning of the parameters for the DDL transform in the SET_TRANSFORM_PARAM procedure. Table 107-23 SET_TRANSFORM_PARAM: Transform Parameters for the DDL Transform Object Type Name Datatype Meaning USER , TABLE , CLUSTER , VIEW , MATERIALIZED_VIEW PROCEDURE , FUNCTION , PACKAGE , TYPE , TRIGGER COLLATION_CLAUSE Text There are three possible values: NEVER — Collation clauses are never generated. ALWAYS — Collation clauses are always generated. NON_DEFAULT — Collation clauses other than USING_NLS_COMP are generated. TABLE OMIT_ENCRYPTION_CLAUSE BOOLEAN If set to Y , directs Data Pump to suppress column encryption clauses. Columns encrypted in the source database are not encrypted in imported tables. Defaults to N . If set to N , directs Data Pump to create column encryption clauses, as in the source database. TABLE DWCS_CVT_IOTS BOOLEAN If set to Y , directs Data Pump to transform Index Organized tables to heap organized tables by suppressing the ORGANIZATION INDEX clause when creating the table. Defaults to N . If set to N , the generated DDL retains the table characteristics of the source object. TABLE , CONSTRAINT DWCS_CVT_CONSTRAINTS BOOLEAN If set to Y , directs Data Pump to create pk/fk/uk constraints as disabled. Defaults to N . If set to N , directs Data Pump to create pk/fk/uk constraints based on the source database status. TABLE , CONSTRAINT CONSTRAINT_USE_DEFAULT_INDEX BOOLEAN This transform parameter affects the generation of index relating the pk/uk constraint. If set to Y , forces the name of an index automatically created to enforce the constraint to be identical to the constraint name. Defaults to N . If set to N , the index is created as it was named on the source database. TABLE , CONSTRAINT CONSTRAINT_NAME_FROM_INDEX BOOLEAN This transform parameter affects the generation of pk/uk constraints which reference user created indexes. If set to Y , forces the name of the constraint to match the name of the index. Defaults to N . If set to N , the constraint is created as it was named on the source database. All objects PRETTY BOOLEAN If TRUE , format the output with indentation and line feeds. Defaults to TRUE . All objects SQLTERMINATOR BOOLEAN If TRUE , append a SQL terminator ( ; or / ) to each DDL statement. Defaults to FALSE . TABLE CONSTRAINTS BOOLEAN If TRUE , include all non-referential table constraints in the DDL. If FALSE , omit them. Defaults to TRUE . TABLE REF_CONSTRAINTS BOOLEAN If TRUE , include all referential constraints (foreign keys) in the DDL. If FALSE , omit them. Defaults to TRUE . TABLE CONSTRAINTS_AS_ALTER BOOLEAN If TRUE , include table constraints as separate ALTER TABLE (and, if necessary, CREATE INDEX ) statements. If FALSE , specify table constraints as part of the CREATE TABLE statement. Defaults to FALSE . Requires that CONSTRAINTS be TRUE. Note: The CONSTRAINTS_AS_ALTER parameter has no effect when an index and a constraint are created for a table in two separate DDL statements. TABLE , TYPE OID BOOLEAN If TRUE , include the Object ID (OID) clause in the DDL. If FALSE , omit it. Defaults to FALSE . TABLE SIZE_BYTE_KEYWORD BOOLEAN If TRUE , include the BYTE keyword as part of the size specification of CHAR and VARCHAR2 columns that use byte semantics. If FALSE , omit the keyword. Defaults to FALSE. TABLE , INDEX PARTITIONING BOOLEAN If TRUE , include partitioning clauses in the DDL. If FALSE , omit them. Defaults to TRUE . INDEX , CONSTRAINT , ROLLBACK_SEGMENT , CLUSTER, TABLE, TABLESPACE SEGMENT_ATTRIBUTES BOOLEAN If TRUE , include segment attributes clauses (physical attributes, storage attributes, tablespace, logging) in the DDL. If FALSE , omit them. Defaults to TRUE . INDEX , CONSTRAINT , ROLLBACK_SEGMENT , CLUSTER,TABLE STORAGE BOOLEAN If TRUE , include storage clauses in the DDL. If FALSE , omit them. (Ignored if SEGMENT_ATTRIBUTES is FALSE .) Defaults to TRUE . INDEX , CONSTRAINT , ROLLBACK_SEGMENT , CLUSTER,TABLE TABLESPACE BOOLEAN If TRUE , include tablespace clauses in the DDL. If FALSE , omit them. (Ignored if SEGMENT_ATTRIBUTES is FALSE .) Defaults to TRUE . TYPE , PACKAGE SPECIFICATION BOOLEAN If TRUE , include the type or package specification in the DDL. If FALSE , omit it. Defaults to TRUE . TYPE , PACKAGE BODY BOOLEAN If TRUE , include the type body or package body in the DDL. If FALSE , omit it. Defaults to TRUE . VIEW FORCE BOOLEAN If TRUE , use the FORCE keyword in the CREATE VIEW statement. If FALSE , do not use the FORCE keyword in the CREATE VIEW statement. Defaults to TRUE . OUTLINE INSERT BOOLEAN If TRUE , include the INSERT statements into the OL$ dictionary tables that will create the outline and its hints. If FALSE , omit a CREATE OUTLINE statement. Defaults to FALSE . Note: This object type is being deprecated. All objects DEFAULT BOOLEAN Calling SET_TRANSFORM_PARAM with this parameter set to TRUE has the effect of resetting all parameters for the transform to their default values. Setting this FALSE has no effect. There is no default. All objects INHERIT BOOLEAN If TRUE , inherits session-level parameters. Defaults to FALSE . If an application calls ADD_TRANSFORM to add the DDL transform, then by default the only transform parameters that apply are those explicitly set for that transform handle. This has no effect if the transform handle is the session transform handle. ROLE REVOKE_FROM Text The name of a user from whom the role must be revoked. If this is a non-null string and if the CREATE ROLE statement grants you the role, a REVOKE statement is included in the DDL after the CREATE ROLE statement. Note: When you issue a CREATE ROLE statement, Oracle may grant you the role. You can use this transform parameter to undo the grant. Defaults to null string. TABLESPACE REUSE BOOLEAN If TRUE , include the REUSE parameter for datafiles in a tablespace to indicate that existing files can be reused. If FALSE , omit the REUSE parameter. Defaults to FALSE . CLUSTER , INDEX , ROLLBACK_SEGMENT , TABLE , TABLESPACE PCTSPACE NUMBER A number representing the percentage by which space allocation for the object type is to be modified. The value is the number of one-hundredths of the current allocation. For example, 100 means 100%. If the object type is TABLESPACE , the following size values are affected: - in file specifications, the value of SIZE - MINIMUM EXTENT - EXTENT MANAGEMENT LOCAL UNIFORM SIZE For other object types, INITIAL and NEXT are affected. TABLE LOB_STORAGE Text Specifies the storage type to use for LOB segments. The options are as follows: SECUREFILE - LOB storage is returned as SECUREFILE BASICFILE - LOB storage is returned as BASICFILE DEFAULT - The keyword ( SECUREFILE or BASICFILE ) is omitted in the LOB STORE AS clause. NO_CHANGE - LOB segments are created with the same storage they had in the source database. This is the default. Specifying this transform changes the LOB storage for all tables in the job, including tables that provide storage for materialized views. TABLE TABLE_COMPRESSION_CLAUSE Text Specifies a table compression clause (for example, COMPRESS BASIC ) to use when the table is created. Specify NONE to omit the table compression clause. The table will have the default compression for the tablespace. Specifying this transform changes the compression type for all tables in the job, including tables that provide storage for materialized views. Table 107-24 describes the object type, name, datatype, and meaning of the parameters for the MODIFY transform in the SET_TRANSFORM_PARAM procedure. Table 107-24 SET_TRANSFORM_PARAM: Transform Parameters for the MODIFY Transform Object Type Name Datatype Meaning All objects OBJECT_ROW NUMBER A number designating the object row for an object. The object in the document that corresponds to this number will be copied to the output document. This parameter is additive. By default, all objects are copied to the output document. Table 107-25 describes the object type, name, datatype, and meaning of the parameters for the MODIFY transform in the SET_REMAP_PARAM procedure. Table 107-25 SET_REMAP_PARAM: Transform Parameters for the MODIFY Transform Object Type Name Datatype Meaning LIBRARY, TABLESPACE, DIRECTORY REMAP_DATAFILE Text Objects in the document will have their filespecs renamed as follows: any filespec matching old_value will be changed to new_value . Filespecs should not be enclosed in quotes. This parameter is additive. By default, filespecs are not renamed. Named objects and all objects dependent on named objects REMAP_NAME Text Any named object in the document whose name matches old_value will have its name changed to new_value . Any dependent object whose base object name matches old_value will have its base schema name changed to new_value . This parameter is additive. By default, names are not remapped. (Use REMAP_TABLESPACE to remap the name of a TABLESPACE object.) Schema Objects, Dependent Objects, Granted Objects, USER REMAP_SCHEMA Text Any schema object in the document whose name matches old_value will have its schema name changed to new_value . Any dependent object whose base object schema name matches old_value will have its base object schema name changed to new_value . Any granted object whose grantee name matches old_value will have its grantee name changed to new_value . Any user whose name matches old_value will have its name changed to new_value . This parameter is additive. By default, schemas are not remapped. NOTE: The mapping may not be 100 percent complete because there are certain schema references that Import is not capable of finding. For example, Import will not find schema references embedded within the body of definitions of triggers, types, views, procedures, and packages. TABLE, CLUSTER, CONSTRAINT, INDEX, ROLLBACK_SEGMENT, MATERIALIZED_VIEW, MATERIALIZED_VIEW_LOG, TABLESPACE_QUOTA REMAP_TABLESPACE Text Objects in the document will have their tablespaces renamed as follows: any tablespace name matching old_value will be changed to new_value . This parameter is additive. By default, tablespaces are not remapped. Table 107-26 SET_TRANSFORM_PARAM: Transform Parameters for the SXML Transform Object type Name Datatype Meaning USER , TABLE , CLUSTER , VIEW , MATERIALIZED_VIEW PROCEDURE , FUNCTION , PACKAGE , TYPE , TRIGGER COLLATION_CLAUSE Text There are three possible values: NEVER — Collation clauses are never generated. ALWAYS — Collation clauses are always generated. NON_DEFAULT — Collation clauses other than USING_NLS_COMP are generated. TABLE , TYPE OID Boolean If TRUE , include the Oracle Internet Directory (OID) clause in the SXML. If FALSE , omit it. Defaults to FALSE . TABLE, INDEX, CLUSTER, MATERIALIZED_VIEW, MATERIALIZED_VIEW_LOG. STORAGE Boolean If TRUE , include storage clauses in the SXML. If FALSE , omit them. (Ignored if SEGMENT_ATTRIBUTES is FALSE .) Defaults to TRUE . TABLE, INDEX, CLUSTER, MATERIALIZED_VIEW, MATERIALIZED_VIEW_LOG. TABLESPACE Boolean If TRUE , include tablespace clauses in the SXML. If FALSE , omit them. (Ignored if SEGMENT_ATTRIBUTES is FALSE .) Defaults to TRUE . TABLE REF_CONSTRAINTS Boolean If TRUE , include all referential constraints (foreign keys) in the SXML. If FALSE , omit them. Defaults to TRUE . TABLE , INDEX , MATERIALIZED_VIEW PHYSICAL_PROPERTIES Boolean If TRUE , include segment attributes clauses (physical attributes, storage attributes, tablespace, logging) in the SXML. If FALSE , omit them. Defaults to TRUE . INDEX , CONSTRAINT , ROLLBACK_SEGMENT , CLUSTER,TABLE, TABLESPACE SEGMENT_ATTRIBUTES Boolean If TRUE , include segment attributes clauses (physical attributes, storage attributes, tablespace, logging) in the SXML. If FALSE , omit them. Defaults to TRUE . TABLE , INDEX PARTITIONING Boolean If TRUE , include partitioning clauses in the SXML. If FALSE , omit them. Defaults to TRUE. TABLE CONSTRAINTS Boolean If TRUE , include all non-referential table constraints in the SXML. If FALSE , omit them. Defaults to TRUE . Table 107-27 SET_TRANSFORM_PARAM: Transform Parameters for the MODIFYSXML Transform Object type Name Datatype Meaning TABLE, INDEX, MATERIALIZED_VIEW, MATERIALIZED_VIEW_LOG STORAGE Boolean If TRUE , include storage clauses in the output SXML. If FALSE , omit them. (Ignored if SEGMENT_ATTRIBUTES is FALSE .) Defaults to TRUE . TABLE, INDEX, MATERIALIZED_VIEW, MATERIALIZED_VIEW_LOG TABLESPACE Boolean If TRUE , include tablespace clauses in the output SXML. If FALSE , omit them. (Ignored if SEGMENT_ATTRIBUTES is FALSE .) Defaults to TRUE . TABLE REF_CONSTRAINTS Boolean If TRUE , include all referential constraints (foreign keys) in the output SXML. If FALSE , omit them. Defaults to TRUE . TABLE , INDEX , VIEW , MATERIALIZED_VIEW , MATERIALIZED_VIEW_LOG REMAP_NAME Text Any NAME element in the document that matches old_value will be changed to new_value . This does not apply to column names. (See REMAP_COLUMN_NAME ). TABLE , INDEX , VIEW , MATERIALIZED_VIEW , MATERIALIZED_VIEW_LOG REMAP_SCHEMA Text Any SCHEMA element in the document matching old_value will be changed to new_value . TABLE , INDEX , VIEW , MATERIALIZED_VIEW REMAP_COLUMN_NAME Text Any column in the document whose name matches old_value will have its name changed to new_value . TABLE, INDEX, MATERIALIZED_VIEW, MATERIALIZED_VIEW_LOG SEGMENT_ATTRIBUTES Boolean If TRUE , include segment attributes clauses (physical attributes, storage attributes, tablespace, logging) in the output SXML. If FALSE , omit them. Defaults to TRUE. TABLE CONSTRAINTS Boolean If TRUE , include all non-referential table constraints in the output SXML. If FALSE , omit them. Defaults to TRUE . Table 107-28 SET_TRANSFORM_PARAM: Transform Parameters for the SXMLDDL Transform Object type Name Datatype Meaning USER , TABLE , CLUSTER , VIEW , MATERIALIZED_VIEW PROCEDURE , FUNCTION , PACKAGE , TYPE , TRIGGER COLLATION_CLAUSE Text There are three possible values: NEVER — Collation clauses are never generated. ALWAYS — Collation clauses are always generated. NON_DEFAULT — Collation clauses other than USING_NLS_COMP are generated. TABLE OID Boolean If TRUE , include OIDs in the DDL. If FALSE , omit them. (Ignored if SEGMENT_ATTRIBUTES is FALSE .) Defaults to TRUE . TABLE, INDEX, CLUSTER, MATERIALIZED_VIEW, MATERIALIZED_VIEW_LOG. TABLESPACE Boolean If TRUE , include tablespace clauses in the DDL. If FALSE , omit them. (Ignored if SEGMENT_ATTRIBUTES is FALSE .) Defaults to TRUE . TABLE, INDEX, CLUSTER, MATERIALIZED_VIEW, MATERIALIZED_VIEW_LOG STORAGE Boolean If TRUE , include storage clauses in the DDL. If FALSE , omit them. (Ignored if SEGMENT_ATTRIBUTES is FALSE .) Defaults to TRUE . TABLE REF_CONSTRAINTS Boolean If TRUE , include all referential constraints (foreign keys) in the DDL. If FALSE , omit them. Defaults to TRUE . INDEX PRESERVE_LOCAL Boolean If PARTITIONING is FALSE and PRESERVE_LOCAL is TRUE and the index is a locally partitioned index, include the LOCAL keyword in the DDL. Defaults to FALSE. TABLE, INDEX, CLUSTER, MATERIALIZED_VIEW, MATERIALIZED_VIEW_LOG SEGMENT_ATTRIBUTES Boolean If TRUE , include segment attributes clauses (physical attributes, storage attributes, tablespace, logging) in the DDL. If FALSE , omit them. Defaults to TRUE . TABLESPACE REUSE Boolean If TRUE , include the REUSE parameter for datafiles in a tablespace to indicate that existing files can be reused. If FALSE , omit the REUSE parameter. Defaults to FALSE . TABLE , INDEX PARTITIONING Boolean If TRUE , include partitioning clauses in the DDL. If FALSE , omit them. Defaults to TRUE . TABLE CONSTRAINTS Boolean If TRUE , include all non-referential table constraints in the output SXML. If FALSE , omit them. Defaults to TRUE . Note: The CONSTRAINTS_AS_ALTER parameter has no effect when an index and a constraint are created for a table in two separate DDL statements.