---
id: 19c__DBMS_APPLY_ADM.SET_DML_HANDLER
name: DBMS_APPLY_ADM.SET_DML_HANDLER
object_type: plsql_procedure
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_APPLY_ADM
tags: [dbms_apply_adm]
source_file: DBMS_APPLY_ADM.html
---

# DBMS_APPLY_ADM.SET_DML_HANDLER

This procedure sets or unsets a user procedure as a procedure DML handler for a specified operation on a specified database object for a single apply component or for all apply components in the database. The user procedure alters the apply behavior for the specified operation on the specified object.

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_APPLY_ADM.SET_DML_HANDLER(
   object_name          IN  VARCHAR2,
   object_type          IN  VARCHAR2,
   operation_name       IN  VARCHAR2,
   error_handler        IN  BOOLEAN   DEFAULT FALSE,
   user_procedure       IN  VARCHAR2,
   apply_database_link  IN  VARCHAR2  DEFAULT NULL,
   apply_name           IN  VARCHAR2  DEFAULT NULL,
   assemble_lobs        IN  BOOLEAN   DEFAULT TRUE);
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Mode | Description |
|-----------|------|------|-------------|
| object_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | The name of the source object specified as [ schema_name .] object_name . For example, hr.employees . If the schema is not specified, then the current user is the default. The specified object does not need to exist when you run this procedure. |
| object_type | VARCHAR2 | IN | The type of the source object. Currently, TABLE is the only possible source object type. |
| operation_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | The name of the operation, which can be specified as: INSERT UPDATE DELETE LOB_UPDATE DEFAULT The procedure must be run for each operation individually. Specify DEFAULT to set the procedure as the default procedure DML handler for the database object. In this case, the procedure DML handler is used for any INSERT , UPDATE , DELETE , and LOB_WRITE on the database object, if another procedure DML handler is not specifically set for the operation on the database object. |
| error_handler | BOOLEAN | IN | If TRUE , then the specified user procedure is run when a row logical change record (row LCR) involving the specified operation on the specified object raises an apply error. You can code the user procedure to resolve possible error conditions, notify administrators of the error, log the error, or any combination of these actions. If FALSE , then the handler being set is run for all row LCRs involving the specified operation on the specified object. |
| user_procedure | VARCHAR2 | IN | A user-defined procedure that is invoked during apply for the specified operation on the specified object. If the procedure is a procedure DML handler, then it is invoked instead of the default apply performed by Oracle. If the procedure is an error handler, then it is invoked when an apply error is encountered. Specify NULL to unset a procedure DML handler that is set for the specified operation on the specified object. |
| apply_database_link | VARCHAR2 | IN | The name of the database link to a non-Oracle database. This parameter should be set only when the destination database is a non-Oracle database. |
| apply_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | The name of the apply component that uses the procedure DML handler or error handler. If NULL , then the procedure sets the procedure DML handler or error handler as a general handler for all apply components in the database. If the user_procedure parameter is set to NULL to unset a handler, and the handler being unset is set for a specific apply component, then use the apply_name parameter to specify the apply component to unset the handler. |
| assemble_lobs | BOOLEAN | IN | If TRUE , then LOB assembly is used for LOB columns in LCRs processed by the handler. LOB assembly combines multiple LCRs for a LOB column resulting from a single row change into one row LCR before passing the LCR to the handler. Database compatibility must be 10.2.0 or higher to use LOB assembly. If FALSE , then LOB assembly is not used for LOB columns in LCRs processed by the handler. |

## Usage Notes

Syntax DBMS_APPLY_ADM.SET_DML_HANDLER( object_name IN VARCHAR2, object_type IN VARCHAR2, operation_name IN VARCHAR2, error_handler IN BOOLEAN DEFAULT FALSE, user_procedure IN VARCHAR2, apply_database_link IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, apply_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, assemble_lobs IN BOOLEAN DEFAULT TRUE); Parameters Table 21-17 SET_DML_HANDLER Procedure Parameters Parameter Description object_name The name of the source object specified as [ schema_name .] object_name . For example, hr.employees . If the schema is not specified, then the current user is the default. The specified object does not need to exist when you run this procedure. object_type The type of the source object. Currently, TABLE is the only possible source object type. operation_name The name of the operation, which can be specified as: INSERT UPDATE DELETE LOB_UPDATE DEFAULT The procedure must be run for each operation individually. Specify DEFAULT to set the procedure as the default procedure DML handler for the database object. In this case, the procedure DML handler is used for any INSERT , UPDATE , DELETE , and LOB_WRITE on the database object, if another procedure DML handler is not specifically set for the operation on the database object. error_handler If TRUE , then the specified user procedure is run when a row logical change record (row LCR) involving the specified operation on the specified object raises an apply error. You can code the user procedure to resolve possible error conditions, notify administrators of the error, log the error, or any combination of these actions. If FALSE , then the handler being set is run for all row LCRs involving the specified operation on the specified object. user_procedure A user-defined procedure that is invoked during apply for the specified operation on the specified object. If the procedure is a procedure DML handler, then it is invoked instead of the default apply performed by Oracle. If the procedure is an error handler, then it is invoked when an apply error is encountered. Specify NULL to unset a procedure DML handler that is set for the specified operation on the specified object. apply_database_link The name of the database link to a non-Oracle database. This parameter should be set only when the destination database is a non-Oracle database. apply_name The name of the apply component that uses the procedure DML handler or error handler. If NULL , then the procedure sets the procedure DML handler or error handler as a general handler for all apply components in the database. If the user_procedure parameter is set to NULL to unset a handler, and the handler being unset is set for a specific apply component, then use the apply_name parameter to specify the apply component to unset the handler. assemble_lobs If TRUE , then LOB assembly is used for LOB columns in LCRs processed by the handler. LOB assembly combines multiple LCRs for a LOB column resulting from a single row change into one row LCR before passing the LCR to the handler. Database compatibility must be 10.2.0 or higher to use LOB assembly. If FALSE , then LOB assembly is not used for LOB columns in LCRs processed by the handler. Usage Notes The following usage notes apply to this procedure: Run the SET_DML_HANDLER Procedure at the Destination Database Procedure DML Handlers and Error Handlers The apply_name Parameter Signature of a DML Handler Procedure or Error Handler Procedure LOB Assembly The SET_DML_HANDLER Procedure and XStream Outbound Servers The SET_DML_HANDLER Procedure and XStream Inbound Servers Run the SET_DML_HANDLER Procedure at the Destination Database Run this procedure at the destination database. The SET_DML_HANDLER procedure provides a way for users to apply logical change records containing DML changes (row LCRs) using a customized apply. Procedure DML Handlers and Error Handlers If the error_handler parameter is set to TRUE , then it specifies that the user procedure is an error handler. An error handler is invoked only when a row LCR raises an apply error. Such an error can result from a data conflict if no conflict handler is specified or if the update conflict handler cannot resolve the conflict. If the error_handler parameter is set to FALSE , then the user procedure is a procedure DML handler, not an error handler, and a procedure DML handler is always run instead of performing the specified operation on the specified object. This procedure either sets a procedure DML handler or an error handler for a particular operation on an object. It cannot set both a procedure DML handler and an error handler for the same object and operation. Note: Currently, setting an error handler for an apply component that is applying changes to a non-Oracle database is not supported. The apply_name Parameter If the apply_name parameter is non- NULL , then the procedure DML handler or error handler is set for the specified apply component. In this case, this handler is not invoked for other apply components at the local destination database. If the apply_name parameter is NULL , the default, then the handler is set as a general handler for all apply components at the destination database. When a handler is set for a specific apply component, then this handler takes precedence over any general handlers. For example, consider the following scenario: A procedure DML handler named handler_hr is specified for an apply component named apply_hr for UPDATE operations on the hr.employees table. A general procedure DML handler named handler_gen also exists for UPDATE operations on the hr.employees table. In this case, the apply_hr apply component uses the handler_hr procedure DML handler for UPDATE operations on the hr.employees table. At the source database, you must specify an unconditional supplemental log group for the columns needed by a DML or error handler. Signature of a DML Handler Procedure or Error Handler Procedure You can use the SET_DML_HANDLER procedure to set either a procedure DML handler or an error handler for row LCRs that perform a specified operation on a specified object. The signatures of a DML handler procedure and of an error handler procedure are described following this section. In either case, you must specify the full procedure name for the user_procedure parameter in one of the following forms: [ schema_name .] package_name.procedure_name [ schema_name .] procedure_name If the procedure is in a package, then the package_name must be specified. The user who invokes the SET_DML_HANDLER procedure must have EXECUTE privilege on the specified procedure. Also, if the schema_name is not specified, then the user who invokes the SET_DML_HANDLER procedure is the default. For example, suppose the procedure_name has the following properties: hr is the schema_name . apply_pkg is the package_name . employees_default is the procedure_name . In this case, specify the following: hr.apply_pkg.employees_default The following restrictions apply to the user procedure: Do not execute COMMIT or ROLLBACK statements. Doing so can endanger the consistency of the transaction that contains the LCR. If you are manipulating a row using the EXECUTE member procedure for the row LCR, then do not attempt to manipulate more than one row in a row operation. You must construct and execute manually any DML statements that manipulate more than one row. If the command type is UPDATE or DELETE , then row operations resubmitted using the EXECUTE member procedure for the LCR must include the entire key in the list of old values. The key is the primary key or the smallest unique index that has at least one NOT NULL column, unless a substitute key has been specified by the SET_KEY_COLUMNS procedure. If there is no specified key, then the key consists of all non LOB , non LONG , and non LONG RAW columns. If the command type is INSERT , then row operations resubmitted using the EXECUTE member procedure for the LCR should include the entire key in the list of new values. Otherwise, duplicate rows are possible. The key is the primary key or the smallest unique index that has at least one NOT NULL column, unless a substitute key has been specified by the SET_KEY_COLUMNS procedure. If there is no specified key, then the key consists of all of the table columns, except for columns of the following data types: LOB, LONG , LONG RAW , user-defined types (including object types, REF s, varrays, nested tables), and Oracle-supplied types (including Any types, XML types, spatial types, and media types). Note: Currently, setting an error handler for an apply component that is applying changes to a non-Oracle database is not supported. The procedure specified in the user_procedure parameter must have the following signature: PROCEDURE user_procedure ( parameter_name IN ANYDATA); Here, user_procedure stands for the name of the procedure and parameter_name stands for the name of the parameter passed to the procedure. The parameter passed to the procedure is a ANYDATA encapsulation of a row LCR. See Also: Logical Change Record TYPEs for more information about LCRs The procedure you create for error handling must have the following signature: PROCEDURE user_procedure ( message IN ANYDATA, error_stack_depth IN NUMBER, error_numbers IN DBMS_UTILITY.NUMBER_ARRAY, error_messages IN emsg_array); If you want to retry the DML operation within the error handler, then have the error handler procedure run the EXECUTE member procedure for the LCR. The last error raised is on top of the error stack. To specify the error message at the top of the error stack, use error_numbers(1) and error_messages(1) . Note: Each parameter is required and must have the specified datatype. However, you can change the names of the parameters. The emsg_array value must be a user-defined array that is a table of type VARCHAR2 with at least 76 characters. Running an error handler results in one of the following outcomes: The error handler successfully resolves the error and returns control to the apply component. The error handler fails to resolve the error, and the error is raised. The raised error causes the transaction to be rolled back and placed in the error queue.