---
id: 19c__DBMS_METADATA.SET_FILTER
name: DBMS_METADATA.SET_FILTER
object_type: plsql_procedure
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_METADATA
tags: [dbms_metadata]
source_file: DBMS_METADATA.html
---

# DBMS_METADATA.SET_FILTER

This procedure specifies restrictions on the objects to be retrieved, for example, the object name or schema.

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_METADATA.SET_FILTER (
   handle           IN NUMBER,
   name             IN VARCHAR2,
   value            IN VARCHAR2,
   object_type_path IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL);

DBMS_METADATA.SET_FILTER (
   handle            IN NUMBER,
   name              IN VARCHAR2,
   value             IN BOOLEAN DEFAULT TRUE,
   object_type_path  IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL);

DBMS_METADATA.SET_FILTER (
   handle            IN NUMBER,
   name              IN VARCHAR2,
   value             IN NUMBER,
   object_type_path  IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL);
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Mode | Description |
|-----------|------|------|-------------|
| handle | NUMBER | IN | The handle returned from OPEN . |
| name | VARCHAR2 | IN | The name of the filter. For each filter, Table 107-18 lists the object_type it applies to, its name, its datatype (text or Boolean), and its meaning or effect (including its default value, if any). The Datatype column of Table 107-18 also indicates whether a text filter is an expression filter. An expression filter is the right-hand side of a SQL comparison (that is, a SQL comparison operator (=, !=, and so on.)) and the value compared against. The value must contain parentheses and quotation marks where appropriate. Note that in PL/SQL and SQL*Plus, two single quotes ( not a double quote) are needed to represent an apostrophe. For example, an example of a NAME_EXPR filter in PL/SQL is as follows: 'IN (''DEPT'',''EMP'')' The filter value is combined with a particular object attribute to produce a WHERE condition in the query that fetches the objects. In the preceding example, the filter is combined with the attribute corresponding to an object name; objects named ' DEPT' and ' EMP' are selected. |
| value | VARCHAR2 | IN | The value of the filter. Text, Boolean, and Numeric filters are supported. |
| object_type_path | VARCHAR2 | IN | A path name designating the object types to which the filter applies. By default, the filter applies to the object type of the OPEN handle. When the OPEN handle designates a heterogeneous object type, you can use this parameter to specify a filter for a specific node or set of nodes within the tree of object types that form the heterogeneous collection. See Table 107-19 for a listing of some of the values for this parameter. |

## Usage Notes

See Also: For more information about related subprograms: Subprograms for Retrieving Multiple Objects From the Database See Also: For more information about related subprograms: Subprograms for Retrieving Multiple Objects From the Database Syntax DBMS_METADATA.SET_FILTER ( handle IN NUMBER, name IN VARCHAR2, value IN VARCHAR2, object_type_path IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL); DBMS_METADATA.SET_FILTER ( handle IN NUMBER, name IN VARCHAR2, value IN BOOLEAN DEFAULT TRUE, object_type_path IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL); DBMS_METADATA.SET_FILTER ( handle IN NUMBER, name IN VARCHAR2, value IN NUMBER, object_type_path IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL); Parameters Table 107-17 SET_FILTER Procedure Parameters Parameter Description handle The handle returned from OPEN . name The name of the filter. For each filter, Table 107-18 lists the object_type it applies to, its name, its datatype (text or Boolean), and its meaning or effect (including its default value, if any). The Datatype column of Table 107-18 also indicates whether a text filter is an expression filter. An expression filter is the right-hand side of a SQL comparison (that is, a SQL comparison operator (=, !=, and so on.)) and the value compared against. The value must contain parentheses and quotation marks where appropriate. Note that in PL/SQL and SQL*Plus, two single quotes ( not a double quote) are needed to represent an apostrophe. For example, an example of a NAME_EXPR filter in PL/SQL is as follows: 'IN (''DEPT'',''EMP'')' The filter value is combined with a particular object attribute to produce a WHERE condition in the query that fetches the objects. In the preceding example, the filter is combined with the attribute corresponding to an object name; objects named ' DEPT' and ' EMP' are selected. value The value of the filter. Text, Boolean, and Numeric filters are supported. object_type_path A path name designating the object types to which the filter applies. By default, the filter applies to the object type of the OPEN handle. When the OPEN handle designates a heterogeneous object type, you can use this parameter to specify a filter for a specific node or set of nodes within the tree of object types that form the heterogeneous collection. See Table 107-19 for a listing of some of the values for this parameter. Table 107-18 describes the object type, name, datatype, and meaning of the filters available with the SET_FILTER procedure. Table 107-18 SET_FILTER: Filters Object Type Name Datatype Meaning Named objects NAME Text Objects with this exact name are selected. Named objects NAME_EXPR Text expression The filter value is combined with the object attribute corresponding to the object name to produce a WHERE condition in the query that fetches the objects. By default, all named objects of object_type are selected. Named objects EXCLUDE_NAME_EXPR Text expression The filter value is combined with the attribute corresponding to the object name to specify objects that are to be excluded from the set of objects fetched. By default, all named objects of the object type are selected. TABLE_EXPORT EXCLUDE_TABLES Boolean If TRUE , all paths associated with tables are excluded from the set of objects fetched. If FALSE (the default), all paths associated with tables are fetched. Schema objects SCHEMA Text Objects in this schema are selected. If the object type is SYNONYM , then specify PUBLIC to select public synonyms. Schema objects SCHEMA_EXPR Text expression The filter value is combined with the attribute corresponding to the object's schema. The default is determined as follows: - if BASE_OBJECT_SCHEMA is specified, then objects in that schema are selected; - otherwise, objects in the current schema are selected. PACKAGE, TYPE SPECIFICATION Boolean If TRUE , retrieve the package or type specification. Defaults to TRUE . PACKAGE, TYPE BODY Boolean If TRUE , retrieve the package or type body. Defaults to TRUE . TABLE, CLUSTER, INDEX, TABLE_DATA, TABLE_EXPORT, TRANSPORTABLE_EXPORT TABLESPACE Text Objects in this tablespace (or having a partition in this tablespace) are selected. TABLE, CLUSTER, INDEX,TABLE_DATA, TABLE_EXPORT, TRANSPORTABLE_EXPORT TABLESPACE_EXPR Text expression The filter value is combined with the attribute corresponding to the object's tablespace (or in the case of a partitioned table or index, the partition's tablespaces). By default, objects in all tablespaces are selected. TABLE , objects dependent on tables PRIMARY Boolean If TRUE , retrieve primary tables (that is, tables for which the secondary object bit in obj$ is clear. Defaults to TRUE . TABLE , objects dependent on tables SECONDARY Boolean If TRUE , retrieve secondary tables (that is, tables for which the secondary object bit in obj$ is set). Defaults to TRUE . Dependent Objects BASE_OBJECT_NAME Text Objects are selected that are defined or granted on objects with this name. Specify SCHEMA for triggers on schemas. Specify DATABASE for database triggers. Column-level comments cannot be selected by column name; the base object name must be the name of the table, view, or materialized view containing the column. Dependent Objects BASE_OBJECT_SCHEMA Text Objects are selected that are defined or granted on objects in this schema. If BASE_OBJECT_NAME is specified with a value other than SCHEMA or DATABASE , this defaults to the current schema. Dependent Objects BASE_OBJECT_NAME_EXPR Text expression The filter value is combined with the attribute corresponding to the name of the base object. Not valid for schema and database triggers. Dependent Objects EXCLUDE_BASE_OBJECT_NAME_EXPR Text expression The filter value is combined with the attribute corresponding to the name of the base object to specify objects that are to be excluded from the set of objects fetched. Not valid for schema and database triggers. Dependent Objects BASE_OBJECT_SCHEMA_EXPR Text expression The filter value is combined with the attribute corresponding to the schema of the base object. Dependent Objects BASE_OBJECT_TYPE Text The object type of the base object. Dependent Objects BASE_OBJECT_TYPE_EXPR Text expression The filter value is combined with the attribute corresponding to the object type of the base object. By default no filtering is done on object type. Dependent Objects BASE_OBJECT_TABLESPACE Text The tablespace of the base object. Dependent Objects BASE_OBJECT_TABLESPACE_EXPR Text expression The filter value is combined with the attribute corresponding to the tablespaces of the base object. By default, no filtering is done on the tablespace. INDEX, TRIGGER SYSTEM_GENERATED Boolean If TRUE , select indexes or triggers even if they are system-generated. If FALSE , omit system-generated indexes or triggers. Defaults to TRUE . Granted Objects GRANTEE Text Objects are selected that are granted to this user or role. Specify PUBLIC for grants to PUBLIC . Granted Objects PRIVNAME Text The name of the privilege or role to be granted. For TABLESPACE_QUOTA , only UNLIMITED can be specified. Granted Objects GRANTEE_EXPR Text expression The filter value is combined with the attribute corresponding to the grantee name. Granted Objects EXCLUDE_GRANTEE_EXPR Text expression The filter value is combined with the attribute corresponding to the grantee name to specify objects that are to be excluded from the set of objects fetched. OBJECT_GRANT GRANTOR Text Object grants are selected that are granted by this user. SYNONYM, JAVA_SOURCE, XMLSCHEMA LONGNAME Text A name longer than 30 characters. Objects with this exact name are selected. If the object name is 30 characters or less, the NAME filter must be used. SYNONYM, JAVA_SOURCE, XMLSCHEMA LONGNAME_EXPR Text The filter value is combined with the attribute corresponding to the object's long name. By default, no filtering is done on the long name of an object. All objects CUSTOM_FILTER Text The text of a WHERE condition. The condition is appended to the query that fetches the objects. By default, no custom filter is used. The other filters are intended to meet the needs of the majority of users. Use CUSTOM_FILTER when no defined filters exists for your purpose. Of necessity such a filter depends on the detailed structure of the UDTs and views used in the query. Because filters may change from version to version, upward compatibility is not guaranteed. All objects EDITION Text The edition filter is accepted for any object type, but affects only objects that support editions. The filter is only accepted for local objects (that is, the network_link parameter is not specified in the OPEN call). The edition name must be a valid edition name. If an edition is not specified, the edition of the active session is used. SCHEMA_EXPORT SCHEMA Text The schema whose objects are selected. SCHEMA_EXPORT SCHEMA_EXPR Text expression The filter value is either: combined with the attribute corresponding to a schema name to produce a WHERE condition in the query that fetches schema objects, combined with the attribute corresponding to a base schema name to produce a WHERE condition in the query that fetches dependent objects. By default the current user's objects are selected. SCHEMA_EXPORT INCLUDE_USER Boolean If TRUE , retrieve objects containing privileged information about the user. For example, USER , PASSWORD_HISTORY , TABLESPACE_QUOTA . Defaults to FALSE . TABLE_EXPORT SCHEMA Text Objects (tables and their dependent objects) in this schema are selected. TABLE_EXPORT SCHEMA_EXPR Text expression The filter value is either: combined with the attribute corresponding to a schema name to produce a WHERE condition in the query that fetches the tables, combined with the attribute corresponding to a base schema name to produce a WHERE condition in the query that fetches the tables' dependent objects. By default the current user's objects are selected. TABLE_EXPORT NAME Text The table with this exact name is selected along with its dependent objects. TABLE_EXPORT NAME_EXPR Text expression The filter value is combined with the attribute corresponding to a table name in the queries that fetch tables and their dependent objects. By default all tables in the selected schemas are selected, along with their dependent objects. Heterogeneous objects BEGIN_WITH Text The fully qualified path name of the first object type in the heterogeneous collection to be retrieved. Objects normally fetched prior to this object type will not be retrieved. Heterogeneous objects BEGIN_AFTER Text The fully qualified path name of an object type after which the heterogeneous retrieval should begin. Objects of this type will not be retrieved, nor will objects normally fetched prior to this object type. Heterogeneous objects END_BEFORE Text The fully qualified path name of an object type where the heterogeneous retrieval should end. Objects of this type will not be retrieved, nor will objects normally fetched after this object type. Heterogeneous objects END_WITH Text The fully qualified path name of the last object type in the heterogeneous collection to be retrieved. Objects normally fetched after this object type will not be retrieved. Heterogeneous objects INCLUDE_PATH_EXPR, EXCLUDE_PATH_EXPR Text expression For these two filters, the filter value is combined with the attribute corresponding to an object type path name to produce a WHERE condition in the query that fetches the object types belonging to the heterogeneous collection. Objects of types satisfying this condition are included ( INCLUDE_PATH_EXPR ) or excluded ( EXCLUDE_PATH_EXPR ) from the set of object types fetched. Path names in the filter value do not have to be fully qualified. See Table 107-19 for valid path names that can be used with these filters. BEGIN_WITH , BEGIN_AFTER , END_BEFORE , END_WITH , INCLUDE_PATH_EXPR , and EXCLUDE_PATH_EXPR all restrict the set of object types in the heterogeneous collection. By default, objects of all object types in the heterogeneous collection are retrieved. Usage Notes Each call to SET_FILTER causes a WHERE condition to be added to the underlying query that fetches the set of objects. The WHERE conditions are concatenated with the AND keyword so that you can use multiple SET_FILTER calls to refine the set of objects to be returned. For example to specify that you want the object named EMP in schema SCOTT , do the following: SET_FILTER(handle,'SCHEMA','SCOTT'); SET_FILTER(handle,'NAME','EMP'); You can use the same text expression filter multiple times with different values. All the filter conditions will be applied to the query. For example, to get objects with names between Felix and Oscar, do the following: SET_FILTER(handle,'NAME_EXPR','>=''FELIX'''); SET_FILTER(handle,'NAME_EXPR','<=''OSCAR'''); With SET_FILTER, you can specify the schema of objects to be retrieved, but security considerations may override this specification. If the caller is SYS or has the SELECT_CATALOG_ROLE role, then any object can be retrieved; otherwise, only the following can be retrieved: Schema objects owned by the current user Public synonyms System privileges granted to the current user or to PUBLIC Grants on objects for which the current user is owner, grantor, or grantee (either explicitly or as PUBLIC ). SCHEMA_EXPORT where the name is the current user TABLE_EXPORT where SCHEMA is the current user If you request objects that you are not privileged to retrieve, no exception is raised; the object is not retrieved, as if it did not exist. In stored procedures, functions, and definers-rights packages, roles (such as SELECT_CATALOG_ROLE ) are disabled. Therefore, such a PL/SQL program can only fetch metadata for objects in its own schema. If you want to write a PL/SQL program that fetches metadata for objects in a different schema (based on the invoker's possession of SELECT_CATALOG_ROLE ), you must make the program invokers-rights. For heterogeneous object types, the BEGIN_WITH and BEGIN_AFTER filters allow restart on an object type boundary. Appropriate filter values are returned by the FETCH_XML_CLOB procedure. Filters on heterogeneous objects provide default values for filters on object types within the collection. You can override this default for a particular object type by specifying the appropriate filter for the specific object type path. For example, for SCHEMA_EXPORT the NAME filter specifies the schema to be fetched including all the tables in the schema, but you can further restrict this set of tables by supplying a NAME_EXPR filter explicitly for the TABLE object type path. Table 107-19 lists valid object type path names for the major heterogeneous object types along with an explanation of the scope of each path name. (The same information is available in the following catalog views: DATABASE_EXPORT_OBJECTS , SCHEMA_EXPORT_OBJECTS , and TABLE_EXPORT_OBJECTS .) See Table 107-18 for filters defined for each path name. These path names are valid in the INCLUDE_PATH_EXPR and EXCLUDE_PATH_EXPR filters. Path names marked with an asterisk (*) are only valid in those filters; they cannot be used as values of the SET_FILTER object_type_path parameter. Table 107-19 Object Type Path Names for Heterogeneous Object Types Heterogeneous Type Path Name (*=valid only in xxx_PATH_EXPR) Scope TABLE_EXPORT AUDIT_OBJ Object audits on the selected tables TABLE_EXPORT COMMENT Table and column comments for the selected tables TABLE_EXPORT CONSTRAINT Constraints (including referential constraints) on the selected tables TABLE_EXPORT *GRANT Object grants on the selected tables TABLE_EXPORT INDEX Indexes (including domain indexes) on the selected tables TABLE_EXPORT OBJECT_GRANT Object grants on the selected tables TABLE_EXPORT REF_CONSTRAINT Referential (foreign key) constraints on the selected tables TABLE_EXPORT STATISTICS Statistics on the selected tables TABLE_EXPORT TABLE_DATA Row data for the selected tables TABLE_EXPORT TRIGGER Triggers on the selected tables SCHEMA_EXPORT ASSOCIATION Statistics type associations for objects in the selected schemas SCHEMA_EXPORT AUDIT_OBJ Audits on all objects in the selected schemas SCHEMA_EXPORT CLUSTER Clusters in the selected schemas and their indexes SCHEMA_EXPORT COMMENT Comments on all objects in the selected schemas SCHEMA_EXPORT CONSTRAINT Constraints (including referential constraints) on all objects in the selected schemas SCHEMA_EXPORT DB_LINK Private database links in the selected schemas SCHEMA_EXPORT DEFAULT_ROLE Default roles granted to users associated with the selected schemas SCHEMA_EXPORT DIMENSION Dimensions in the selected schemas SCHEMA_EXPORT FUNCTION Functions in the selected schemas and their dependent grants and audits SCHEMA_EXPORT *GRANT Grants on objects in the selected schemas SCHEMA_EXPORT INDEX Indexes (including domain indexes) on tables and clusters in the selected schemas SCHEMA_EXPORT INDEXTYPE Indextypes in the selected schemas and their dependent grants and audits SCHEMA_EXPORT JAVA_SOURCE Java sources in the selected schemas and their dependent grants and audits SCHEMA_EXPORT JOB Jobs in the selected schemas SCHEMA_EXPORT LIBRARY External procedure libraries in the selected schemas SCHEMA_EXPORT MATERIALIZED_VIEW Materialized views in the selected schemas SCHEMA_EXPORT MATERIALIZED_VIEW_LOG Materialized view logs on tables in the selected schemas SCHEMA_EXPORT OBJECT_GRANT Grants on objects in the selected schemas SCHEMA_EXPORT OPERATOR Operators in the selected schemas and their dependent grants and audits SCHEMA_EXPORT PACKAGE Packages (both specification and body) in the selected schemas, and their dependent grants and audits SCHEMA_EXPORT PACKAGE_BODY Package bodies in the selected schemas SCHEMA_EXPORT PACKAGE_SPEC Package specifications in the selected schemas SCHEMA_EXPORT PASSWORD_HISTORY The password history for users associated with the selected schemas SCHEMA_EXPORT PROCEDURE Procedures in the selected schemas and their dependent grants and audits SCHEMA_EXPORT REF_CONSTRAINT Referential (foreign key) constraints on tables in the selected schemas SCHEMA_EXPORT REFRESH_GROUP Refresh groups in the selected schemas SCHEMA_EXPORT SEQUENCE Sequences in the selected schemas and their dependent grants and audits SCHEMA_EXPORT STATISTICS Statistics on tables and indexes in the selected schemas SCHEMA_EXPORT SYNONYM Private synonyms in the selected schemas SCHEMA_EXPORT TABLE Tables in the selected schemas and their dependent objects (indexes, constraints, triggers, grants, audits, comments, table data, and so on) SCHEMA_EXPORT TABLE_DATA Row data for tables in the selected schemas SCHEMA_EXPORT TABLESPACE_QUOTA Tablespace quota granted to users associated with the selected schemas SCHEMA_EXPORT TRIGGER Triggers on tables in the selected schemas SCHEMA_EXPORT XS_SECURITY_CLASS Oracle Real Application Security (RAS) security classes SCHEMA_EXPORT XS_DATA_SECURITY Oracle Real Application Security (RAS) data security policies SCHEMA_EXPORT XS_ACL Oracle Real Application Security (RAS) access control lists (ACLs) SCHEMA_EXPORT TYPE Types (both specification and body) in the selected schemas, and their dependent grants and audits SCHEMA_EXPORT TYPE_BODY Type bodies in the selected schemas SCHEMA_EXPORT TYPE_SPEC Type specifications in the selected schemas SCHEMA_EXPORT USER User definitions for users associated with the selected schemas SCHEMA_EXPORT VIEW Views in the selected schemas and their dependent objects (grants, constraints, comments, audits) DATABASE_EXPORT ASSOCIATION Statistics type associations for objects in the database DATABASE_EXPORT AUDIT Audits of SQL statements DATABASE_EXPORT AUDIT_OBJ Audits on all objects in the database DATABASE_EXPORT CLUSTER Clusters and their indexes DATABASE_EXPORT COMMENT Comments on all objects DATABASE_EXPORT CONSTRAINT Constraints (including referential constraints) DATABASE_EXPORT CONTEXT Application contexts DATABASE_EXPORT DB_LINK Private and public database links DATABASE_EXPORT DEFAULT_ROLE Default roles granted to users in the database DATABASE_EXPORT DIMENSION Dimensions in the database DATABASE_EXPORT DIRECTORY Directory objects in the database DATABASE_EXPORT FGA_POLICY Fine-grained audit policies DATABASE_EXPORT FUNCTION Functions DATABASE_EXPORT * GRANT Object and system grants DATABASE_EXPORT INDEX Indexes (including domain indexes) on tables and clusters DATABASE_EXPORT INDEXTYPE Indextypes and their dependent grants and audits DATABASE_EXPORT JAVA_SOURCE Java sources and their dependent grants and audits DATABASE_EXPORT JOB Jobs DATABASE_EXPORT LIBRARY External procedure libraries DATABASE_EXPORT MATERIALIZED_VIEW Materialized views DATABASE_EXPORT MATERIALIZED_VIEW_LOG Materialized view logs DATABASE_EXPORT OBJECT_GRANT All object grants in the database DATABASE_EXPORT OPERATOR Operators and their dependent grants and audits DATABASE_EXPORT PACKAGE Packages (both specification and body) and their dependent grants and audits DATABASE_EXPORT PACKAGE_BODY Package bodies DATABASE_EXPORT PACKAGE_SPEC Package specifications DATABASE_EXPORT PASSWORD_HISTORY Password histories for database users DATABASE_EXPORT *PASSWORD_VERIFY_FUNCTION The password complexity verification function DATABASE_EXPORT PROCEDURE Procedures and their dependent grants and objects DATABASE_EXPORT PROFILE Profiles DATABASE_EXPORT PROXY Proxy authentications DATABASE_EXPORT REF_CONSTRAINT Referential (foreign key) constraints on tables in the database DATABASE_EXPORT REFRESH_GROUP Refresh groups DATABASE_EXPORT *RESOURCE_ COST Resource cost information DATABASE_EXPORT RLS_CONTEXT Fine-grained access-control driving contexts DATABASE_EXPORT RLS_GROUP Fine-grained access-control policy groups DATABASE_EXPORT RLS_POLICY Fine-grained access-control policies DATABASE_EXPORT ROLE Roles DATABASE_EXPORT ROLE_GRANT Role grants to users in the database DATABASE_EXPORT ROLLBACK_SEGMENT Rollback segments DATABASE_EXPORT *SCHEMA (named object) Database schemas including for each schema all related and dependent objects: user definitions and their attributes (default roles, role grants, tablespace quotas, and so on), objects in the schema (tables, view, packages, types, and so on), and their dependent objects (grants, audits, indexes, constraints, and so on). The NAME and NAME_EXPR filters can be used with this object type path name to designate the database schemas to be fetched. DATABASE_EXPORT SEQUENCE Sequences DATABASE_EXPORT STATISTICS Statistics on tables and indexes DATABASE_EXPORT SYNONYM Public and private synonyms DATABASE_EXPORT SYSTEM_GRANT System privilege grants DATABASE_EXPORT TABLE Tables and their dependent objects (indexes, constraints, triggers, grants, audits, comments, table data, and so on) DATABASE_EXPORT TABLE_DATA Row data for all tables DATABASE_EXPORT TABLESPACE Tablespace definitions DATABASE_EXPORT TABLESPACE_QUOTA Tablespace quota granted to users in the database DATABASE_EXPORT TRIGGER Triggers on the database, on schemas, and on schema objects DATABASE_EXPORT XS_USER Oracle Real Application Security (RAS) users DATABASE_EXPORT XS_ROLE Oracle Real Application Security (RAS) roles DATABASE_EXPORT XS_SECURITY_CLASS Oracle Real Application Security (RAS) security classes DATABASE_EXPORT XS_DATA_SECURITY Oracle Real Application Security (RAS) data security policies DATABASE_EXPORT XS_ACL Oracle Real Application Security (RAS) access control lists (ACLs) DATABASE_EXPORT XS_NAMESPACE Oracle Real Application Security (RAS) namespaces DATABASE_EXPORT TRUSTED_DB_LINK Trusted links DATABASE_EXPORT TYPE Types (both specification and body) and their dependent grants and audits DATABASE_EXPORT TYPE_BODY Type bodies DATABASE_EXPORT TYPE_SPEC Type specifications DATABASE_EXPORT USER User definitions DATABASE_EXPORT VIEW Views