---
id: 19c__DBMS_SQL.PARSE
name: DBMS_SQL.PARSE
object_type: plsql_subprogram
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_SQL
tags: [dbms_sql]
source_file: DBMS_SQL.html
---

# DBMS_SQL.PARSE

This procedure parses the given statement in the given cursor. All statements are parsed immediately. In addition, DDL statements are run immediately when parsed.

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_SQL.PARSE (
   c                           IN   INTEGER,
   statement                   IN   VARCHAR2,
   language_flag               IN   INTEGER[
 [,edition                     IN   VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL],
   apply_crossedition_trigger  IN   VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL,
   fire_apply_trigger          IN   BOOLEAN DEFAULT TRUE]
 [,schema                      IN   VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL]
 [,container                   IN   VARCHAR2)];
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Mode | Description |
|-----------|------|------|-------------|
| c | INTEGER | IN | ID number of the cursor in which to parse the statement. |
| statement | VARCHAR2 | IN | SQL statement to be parsed. SQL statements larger than 32K that may be stored in CLOB s. Unlike a PL/SQL statement, your SQL statement must not include a final semicolon. For example: DBMS_SQL.PARSE (cursor1, ' BEGIN proc; END ;', 2); DBMS_SQL.PARSE (cursor1, ' INSERT INTO tab VALUES (1)', 2); |
| lb |  |  | Lower bound for elements in the statement |
| ub |  |  | Upper bound for elements in the statement |
| lfflg |  |  | If TRUE , then insert a linefeed after each element on concatenation. |
| language_flag | INTEGER | IN | Specifies the behavior for the SQL statement. For more information about the possible values and its corresponding behaviors, see DBMS_SQL Constants |
| edition | VARCHAR2 | IN | Specifies the edition in which to run the statement under the following conditions: If NULL and container is NULL , the statement will be run in the current edition. If a valid container is specified, passing NULL indicates the statement is to run in the target container's default edition. Given the user and the edition with which the statement is to be executed, the user must have USE privilege on the edition. The following general conditions apply. The contents of the string are processed as a SQL identifier; double quotation marks must surround the remainder of the string if special characters or lowercase characters are present in the edition's actual name, and if double quotation marks are not used the contents will be uppercased. |
| apply_crossedition_trigger | VARCHAR2 | IN | Specifies the unqualified name of a forward crossedition trigger that is to be applied to the specified SQL. The name is resolved using the edition and current_schema setting in which the statement is to be executed. The trigger must be owned by the user that will execute the statement.If a non- NULL value is specified, the specified crossedition trigger will be executed assuming fire_apply_trigger is TRUE , the trigger is enabled, the trigger is defined on the table which is the target of the statement, the type of the statement matches the trigger's dml_event_clause , any effective WHEN and UPDATE OF restrictions are satisfied, and so on. Other forward crossedition triggers may also be executed, selected using the "crossedition trigger DML rules" applied as if the specified trigger was doing a further DML to the table that is the target of the statement. Non-crossedition triggers and reverse crossedition triggers will not be executed.The contents of the string are processed as a SQL identifier; double quotation marks must surround the remainder of the string if special characters or lowercase characters are present in the trigger's actual name, and if double quotation marks are not used, the contents will be uppercased. |
| fire_apply_trigger | BOOLEAN | IN | Indicates whether the specified apply_crossedition_trigger is itself to be executed, or must only be a guide used in selecting other triggers. This is typically set FALSE when the statement is a replacement for the actions the apply_crossedition_trigger would itself perform. If FALSE , the specified trigger is not executed, but other triggers are still selected for firing as if the specified trigger was doing a DML to the table that is the target of the statement. The apply_crossedition_trigger and fire_apply_trigger parameters are ignored if the statement is not a DML. |
| schema | VARCHAR2 | IN | Specifies the schema in which to resolve unqualified object names. If NULL , the current schema is the effective user's schema. |
| container | VARCHAR2) | IN | Name of the target container in which the cursor is to run. If NULL or unspecified, the name of the target container is that of the calling container and no container switch is performed. If a valid container name is specified, the current user must be a common user with SET CONTAINER privilege to switch to the target container. If a container switch completes, the effective user will have its default roles. |

## Usage Notes

There are multiple versions of the PARSE procedure: Taking a VARCHAR2 statement as an argument Taking a segmented string, one taking VARCHAR2A , a TABLE OF VARCHAR2(32767) , and another, taking VARCHAR2S , a TABLE OF VARCHAR2(256) , as argument. These overloads concatenate elements of a PL/SQL table statement and parse the resulting string. You can use these procedures to parse a statement that is longer than the limit for a single VARCHAR2 variable by splitting up the statement. Taking a CLOB statement as an argument. You can use the CLOB overload version of the parse procedure to parse a SQL statement larger than 32K bytes. Syntax Each version has multiple overloads. DBMS_SQL.PARSE ( c IN INTEGER, statement IN VARCHAR2, language_flag IN INTEGER[ [,edition IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL], apply_crossedition_trigger IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, fire_apply_trigger IN BOOLEAN DEFAULT TRUE] [,schema IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL] [,container IN VARCHAR2)]; DBMS_SQL.PARSE ( c IN INTEGER, statement IN CLOB, language_flag IN INTEGER[ [,edition IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL], apply_crossedition_trigger IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, fire_apply_trigger IN BOOLEAN DEFAULT TRUE] [,schema IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL] [,container IN VARCHAR2)]; DBMS_SQL.PARSE ( c IN INTEGER, statement IN VARCHAR2A, lb IN INTEGER, ub IN INTEGER, lfflg IN BOOLEAN, language_flag IN INTEGER[ [,edition IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL], apply_crossedition_trigger IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, fire_apply_trigger IN BOOLEAN DEFAULT TRUE] [,schema IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL] [,container IN VARCHAR2)]; DBMS_SQL.PARSE ( c IN INTEGER, statement IN VARCHAR2s, lb IN INTEGER, ub IN INTEGER, lfflg IN BOOLEAN, language_flag IN INTEGER[ [,edition IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL], apply_crossedition_trigger IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, fire_apply_trigger IN BOOLEAN DEFAULT TRUE] [,schema IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL] [,container IN VARCHAR2)]; Parameters Table 162-29 PARSE Procedure Parameters Parameter Description c ID number of the cursor in which to parse the statement. statement SQL statement to be parsed. SQL statements larger than 32K that may be stored in CLOB s. Unlike a PL/SQL statement, your SQL statement must not include a final semicolon. For example: DBMS_SQL.PARSE (cursor1, ' BEGIN proc; END ;', 2); DBMS_SQL.PARSE (cursor1, ' INSERT INTO tab VALUES (1)', 2); lb Lower bound for elements in the statement ub Upper bound for elements in the statement lfflg If TRUE , then insert a linefeed after each element on concatenation. language_flag Specifies the behavior for the SQL statement. For more information about the possible values and its corresponding behaviors, see DBMS_SQL Constants edition Specifies the edition in which to run the statement under the following conditions: If NULL and container is NULL , the statement will be run in the current edition. If a valid container is specified, passing NULL indicates the statement is to run in the target container's default edition. Given the user and the edition with which the statement is to be executed, the user must have USE privilege on the edition. The following general conditions apply. The contents of the string are processed as a SQL identifier; double quotation marks must surround the remainder of the string if special characters or lowercase characters are present in the edition's actual name, and if double quotation marks are not used the contents will be uppercased. apply_crossedition_trigger Specifies the unqualified name of a forward crossedition trigger that is to be applied to the specified SQL. The name is resolved using the edition and current_schema setting in which the statement is to be executed. The trigger must be owned by the user that will execute the statement.If a non- NULL value is specified, the specified crossedition trigger will be executed assuming fire_apply_trigger is TRUE , the trigger is enabled, the trigger is defined on the table which is the target of the statement, the type of the statement matches the trigger's dml_event_clause , any effective WHEN and UPDATE OF restrictions are satisfied, and so on. Other forward crossedition triggers may also be executed, selected using the "crossedition trigger DML rules" applied as if the specified trigger was doing a further DML to the table that is the target of the statement. Non-crossedition triggers and reverse crossedition triggers will not be executed.The contents of the string are processed as a SQL identifier; double quotation marks must surround the remainder of the string if special characters or lowercase characters are present in the trigger's actual name, and if double quotation marks are not used, the contents will be uppercased. fire_apply_trigger Indicates whether the specified apply_crossedition_trigger is itself to be executed, or must only be a guide used in selecting other triggers. This is typically set FALSE when the statement is a replacement for the actions the apply_crossedition_trigger would itself perform. If FALSE , the specified trigger is not executed, but other triggers are still selected for firing as if the specified trigger was doing a DML to the table that is the target of the statement. The apply_crossedition_trigger and fire_apply_trigger parameters are ignored if the statement is not a DML. schema Specifies the schema in which to resolve unqualified object names. If NULL , the current schema is the effective user's schema. container Name of the target container in which the cursor is to run. If NULL or unspecified, the name of the target container is that of the calling container and no container switch is performed. If a valid container name is specified, the current user must be a common user with SET CONTAINER privilege to switch to the target container. If a container switch completes, the effective user will have its default roles. Usage Notes Using DBMS_SQL to dynamically run DDL statements can cause the program to stop responding. For example, a call to a procedure in a package results in the package being locked until the execution returns to the user side. Any operation that results in a conflicting lock, such as dynamically trying to drop the package before the first lock is released, stops the program from running. Because client-side code cannot reference remote package variables or constants, you must explicitly use the values of the constants. For example, the following code does not compile on the client: DBMS_SQL.PARSE ( cur_hdl , stmt_str , DBMS_SQL . NATIVE ); -- uses constant DBMS_SQL.NATIVE The following code works on the client, because the argument is explicitly provided: DBMS_SQL . PARSE ( cur_hdl , stmt_str , 1 ); -- compiles on the client The VARCHAR2S type is currently supported for backward compatibility of legacy code. However, you are advised to use VARCHAR2A both for its superior capability and because VARCHAR2S will be deprecated in a future release. To parse SQL statements larger than 32 KB, the new CLOB overload version of the PARSE procedure can be used instead of the VARCHAR2A overload. If the container parameter value is the same as the calling container, a container switch will not occur. However, the default roles of the current user will be in effect. Exceptions If you create a type, procedure, function, or package using DBMS_SQL that has compilation warnings, an ORA-24344 exception is raised, and the PL/SQL unit is still created.