---
id: 19c__DBMS_DATA_MINING.COMPUTE_LIFT_PART
name: DBMS_DATA_MINING.COMPUTE_LIFT_PART
object_type: plsql_procedure
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_DATA_MINING
tags: [dbms_data_mining]
source_file: DBMS_DATA_MINING.html
---

# DBMS_DATA_MINING.COMPUTE_LIFT_PART

The COMPUTE_LIFT_PART procedure computes Lift and stores the results in a table in the user's schema. This procedure provides support to the computation of evaluation metrics per-partition for partitioned models.

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_DATA_MINING.COMPUTE_LIFT_PART (
      apply_result_table_name     IN VARCHAR2,
      target_table_name           IN VARCHAR2,
      case_id_column_name         IN VARCHAR2,
      target_column_name          IN VARCHAR2,
      lift_table_name             IN VARCHAR2,
      positive_target_value       IN VARCHAR2,
      score_column_name           IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT 'PREDICTION',
      score_criterion_column_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT 'PROBABILITY',
      score_partition_column_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT 'PARTITION_NAME',
      num_quantiles               IN NUMBER   DEFAULT 10,
      cost_matrix_table_name      IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL,
      apply_result_schema_name    IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL,
      target_schema_name          IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL,
      cost_matrix_schema_name     IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL,
      score_criterion_type        IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL);
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Mode | Description |
|-----------|------|------|-------------|
| apply_result_table_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Table containing the predictions |
| target_table_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Table containing the known target values from the test data |
| case_id_column_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Case ID column in the apply results table. Must match the case identifier in the targets table. |
| target_column_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Target column in the targets table. Contains the known target values from the test data. |
| lift_table_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Table containing the Lift statistics. The table will be created by the procedure in the user's schema. The columns in the Lift table are described in the Usage Notes. |
| positive_target_value | VARCHAR2 | IN | The positive class. This should be the class of interest, for which you want to calculate Lift. If the target column is a NUMBER , then you can use the TO_CHAR() operator to provide the value as a string. |
| score_column_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Column containing the predictions in the apply results table. The default column name is PREDICTION , which is the default name created by the APPLY procedure (See " APPLY Procedure " ). |
| score_criterion_column_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Column containing the scoring criterion in the apply results table. Contains either the probabilities or the costs that determine the predictions. By default, scoring is based on probability; the class with the highest probability is predicted for each case. If scoring is based on cost, then the class with the lowest cost is predicted. The score_criterion_type parameter indicates whether probabilities or costs will be used for scoring. The default column name is PROBABILITY , which is the default name created by the APPLY procedure (See " APPLY Procedure " ). See the Usage Notes for additional information. |
| score_partition_column_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Optional parameter indicating the column containing the name of the partition. This column slices the input test results such that each partition has independent evaluation matrices computed. |
| num_quantiles | NUMBER | IN | Number of quantiles to be used in calculating Lift. The default is 10. |
| cost_matrix_table_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | (Optional) Table that defines the costs associated with misclassifications. If a cost matrix table is provided and the score_criterion_type parameter is set to COST , then the costs will be used as the scoring criteria. The columns in a cost matrix table are described in the Usage Notes. |
| apply_result_schema_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Schema of the apply results table If null, then the user's schema is assumed. |
| target_schema_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Schema of the table containing the known targets If null, then the user's schema is assumed. |
| cost_matrix_schema_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Schema of the cost matrix table, if one is provided If null, then the user's schema is assumed. |
| score_criterion_type | VARCHAR2 | IN | Whether to use probabilities or costs as the scoring criterion. Probabilities or costs are passed in the column identified in the score_criterion_column_name parameter. The default value of score_criterion_type is PROBABILITY . To use costs as the scoring criterion, specify COST . If score_criterion_type is set to COST but no cost matrix is provided and if there is a scoring cost matrix associated with the model, then the associated costs are used for scoring. See the Usage Notes and the Examples. |

## Usage Notes

Lift is a test metric for binary Classification models. To compute Lift, one of the target values must be designated as the positive class. COMPUTE_LIFT_PART compares the predictions generated by the model with the actual target values in a set of test data. Lift measures the degree to which the model's predictions of the positive class are an improvement over random chance. Lift is computed on scoring results that have been ranked by probability (or cost) and divided into quantiles. Each quantile includes the scores for the same number of cases. COMPUTE_LIFT_PART calculates quantile-based and cumulative statistics. The number of quantiles and the positive class are user-specified. Additionally, COMPUTE_LIFT_PART accepts three input streams: The predictions generated on the test data. The information is passed in three columns: Case ID column Prediction column Scoring criterion column containing either probabilities or costs associated with the predictions The known target values in the test data. The information is passed in two columns: Case ID column Target column containing the known target values (Optional) A cost matrix table with predefined columns. See the Usage Notes for the column requirements. See Also: Oracle Data Mining Concepts for more details about Lift and test metrics for classification " COMPUTE_LIFT Procedure " " COMPUTE_CONFUSION_MATRIX Procedure " " COMPUTE_CONFUSION_MATRIX_PART Procedure " " COMPUTE_ROC Procedure " " COMPUTE_ROC_PART Procedure " See Also: Oracle Data Mining Concepts for more details about Lift and test metrics for classification " COMPUTE_LIFT Procedure " " COMPUTE_CONFUSION_MATRIX Procedure " " COMPUTE_CONFUSION_MATRIX_PART Procedure " " COMPUTE_ROC Procedure " " COMPUTE_ROC_PART Procedure " Syntax DBMS_DATA_MINING.COMPUTE_LIFT_PART ( apply_result_table_name IN VARCHAR2, target_table_name IN VARCHAR2, case_id_column_name IN VARCHAR2, target_column_name IN VARCHAR2, lift_table_name IN VARCHAR2, positive_target_value IN VARCHAR2, score_column_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT 'PREDICTION', score_criterion_column_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT 'PROBABILITY', score_partition_column_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT 'PARTITION_NAME', num_quantiles IN NUMBER DEFAULT 10, cost_matrix_table_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, apply_result_schema_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, target_schema_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, cost_matrix_schema_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, score_criterion_type IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL); Parameters Table 47-55 COMPUTE_LIFT_PART Procedure Parameters Parameter Description apply_result_table_name Table containing the predictions target_table_name Table containing the known target values from the test data case_id_column_name Case ID column in the apply results table. Must match the case identifier in the targets table. target_column_name Target column in the targets table. Contains the known target values from the test data. lift_table_name Table containing the Lift statistics. The table will be created by the procedure in the user's schema. The columns in the Lift table are described in the Usage Notes. positive_target_value The positive class. This should be the class of interest, for which you want to calculate Lift. If the target column is a NUMBER , then you can use the TO_CHAR() operator to provide the value as a string. score_column_name Column containing the predictions in the apply results table. The default column name is PREDICTION , which is the default name created by the APPLY procedure (See " APPLY Procedure " ). score_criterion_column_name Column containing the scoring criterion in the apply results table. Contains either the probabilities or the costs that determine the predictions. By default, scoring is based on probability; the class with the highest probability is predicted for each case. If scoring is based on cost, then the class with the lowest cost is predicted. The score_criterion_type parameter indicates whether probabilities or costs will be used for scoring. The default column name is PROBABILITY , which is the default name created by the APPLY procedure (See " APPLY Procedure " ). See the Usage Notes for additional information. score_partition_column_name Optional parameter indicating the column containing the name of the partition. This column slices the input test results such that each partition has independent evaluation matrices computed. num_quantiles Number of quantiles to be used in calculating Lift. The default is 10. cost_matrix_table_name (Optional) Table that defines the costs associated with misclassifications. If a cost matrix table is provided and the score_criterion_type parameter is set to COST , then the costs will be used as the scoring criteria. The columns in a cost matrix table are described in the Usage Notes. apply_result_schema_name Schema of the apply results table If null, then the user's schema is assumed. target_schema_name Schema of the table containing the known targets If null, then the user's schema is assumed. cost_matrix_schema_name Schema of the cost matrix table, if one is provided If null, then the user's schema is assumed. score_criterion_type Whether to use probabilities or costs as the scoring criterion. Probabilities or costs are passed in the column identified in the score_criterion_column_name parameter. The default value of score_criterion_type is PROBABILITY . To use costs as the scoring criterion, specify COST . If score_criterion_type is set to COST but no cost matrix is provided and if there is a scoring cost matrix associated with the model, then the associated costs are used for scoring. See the Usage Notes and the Examples. Usage Notes The predictive information you pass to COMPUTE_LIFT_PART may be generated using SQL PREDICTION functions, the DBMS_DATA_MINING.APPLY procedure, or some other mechanism. As long as you pass the appropriate data, the procedure can compute the Lift. Instead of passing a cost matrix to COMPUTE_LIFT_PART , you can use a scoring cost matrix associated with the model. A scoring cost matrix can be embedded in the model or it can be defined dynamically when the model is applied. To use a scoring cost matrix, invoke the SQL PREDICTION_COST function to populate the score criterion column. The predictions that you pass to COMPUTE_LIFT_PART are in a table or view specified in apply_results_table_name . CREATE TABLE apply_result_table_name AS ( case_id_column_name VARCHAR2, score_column_name VARCHAR2, score_criterion_column_name VARCHAR2); A cost matrix must have the columns described in Table 47-53 . Table 47-56 Columns in a Cost Matrix Column Name Datatype actual_target_value Type of the target column in the test data predicted_target_value Type of the predicted target in the test data. The type of the predicted target must be the same as the type of the actual target unless the predicted target has an associated reverse transformation. cost NUMBER See Also: Oracle Data Mining Concepts for more information about cost matrixes The table created by COMPUTE_LIFT_PART has the columns described in Table 47-54 Table 47-57 Columns in a COMPUTE_LIFT_PART Table Column Name Datatype quantile_number NUMBER probability_threshold NUMBER gain_cumulative NUMBER quantile_total_count NUMBER quantile_target_count NUMBER percent_records_cumulative NUMBER lift_cumulative NUMBER target_density_cumulative NUMBER targets_cumulative NUMBER non_targets_cumulative NUMBER lift_quantile NUMBER target_density NUMBER See Also: Oracle Data Mining Concepts for details about the information in the Lift table When a cost matrix is passed to COMPUTE_LIFT_PART , the cost threshold is returned in the probability_threshold column of the Lift table.