---
id: 19c__DBMS_GOLDENGATE_AUTH.GRANT_ADMIN_PRIVILEGE
name: DBMS_GOLDENGATE_AUTH.GRANT_ADMIN_PRIVILEGE
object_type: plsql_procedure
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_GOLDENGATE_AUTH
tags: [dbms_goldengate_auth]
source_file: DBMS_GOLDENGATE_AUTH.html
---

# DBMS_GOLDENGATE_AUTH.GRANT_ADMIN_PRIVILEGE

This procedure grants the privileges needed by a user to be a GoldenGate administrator.

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_GOLDENGATE_AUTH.GRANT_ADMIN_PRIVILEGE(
   grantee                    IN  VARCHAR2,
   privilege_type             IN  VARCHAR2  DEFAULT '*',
   grant_select_privileges    IN  BOOLEAN   DEFAULT TRUE,
   do_grants                  IN  BOOLEAN   DEFAULT TRUE,
   file_name                  IN  VARCHAR2  DEFAULT NULL,
   directory_name             IN  VARCHAR2  DEFAULT NULL
   grant_optional_privileges  IN  VARCHAR2  DEFAULT NULL,
   container                  IN  VARCHAR2  DEFAULT 'CURRENT');
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Mode | Description |
|-----------|------|------|-------------|
| grantee | VARCHAR2 | IN | The user to whom privileges are granted |
| privilege_type | VARCHAR2 | IN | Specify one of the following values: CAPTURE Specifying CAPTURE grants the minimum privileges required by the user to administer Oracle GoldenGate integrated extract. APPLY Specifying APPLY grants the minimum privileges required by the user to administer Oracle GoldenGate integrated replicat. * Specifying * grants the minimum privileges required by the user to administer Oracle GoldenGate integrated extract and Oracle GoldenGate integrated replicat. |
| grant_select_privileges | BOOLEAN | IN | If TRUE , then the procedure grants a set of privileges, including SELECT_CATALOG_ROLE , to the user. This setting is recommended for GoldenGate administrators. If FALSE , then the procedure does not grant the set of privileges to the user. SELECT_CATALOG_ROLE enables the user to select from the data dictionary. |
| do_grants | BOOLEAN | IN | If TRUE , then the procedure grants the privileges to the specified grantee directly, and adds the grantee to the DBA_GOLDENGATE_PRIVILEGES data dictionary view. If the user already has an entry in this data dictionary view, then the procedure does not make another entry, and no error is raised. If TRUE and any of the grant statements fails, then the procedure raises an error. If FALSE , then the procedure does not grant the privileges to the specified grantee directly, and does not add the grantee to the DBA_GOLDENGATE_PRIVILEGES data dictionary view. You specify FALSE when the procedure is generating a file that you will run later. If you specify FALSE and either the file_name or directory_name parameter is NULL , then the procedure raises an error. Note: It is recommended that do_grants be set to TRUE because many APIs check for the presence of a user in the DBA_GOLDENGATE_PRIVILEGES view, which will not be populated if do_grants is set to FALSE . |
| file_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | The name of the file generated by the procedure. The file contains all of the statements that grant the privileges. If a file with the specified file name exists in the specified directory name, then the grant statements are appended to the existing file. If NULL , then the procedure does not generate a file. |
| directory_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | The directory into which the generated file is placed. The specified directory must be a directory object created using the SQL statement CREATE DIRECTORY . If you specify a directory, then the user who invokes the procedure must have the WRITE privilege on the directory object. If t he file_name parameter is NULL , then this parameter is ignored, and the procedure does not generate a file. If NULL and the file_name parameter is non- NULL , then the procedure raises an error. |
| grant_optional_privileges | VARCHAR2 | IN | A comma-separated list of optional privileges to grant to the grantee. You can specify the following roles and privileges: XDBADMIN DV_XSTREAM_ADMIN DV_GOLDENGATE_ADMIN EXEMPT_ACCESS_POLICY EXEMPT_REDACTION_POLICY |
| container | VARCHAR2 | IN | If CURRENT , then grants privileges to the grantee only in the container where the procedure is invoked. CURRENT can be specified while connected to the root or to a PDB. If ALL , then grants privileges to the grantee in all containers in the CDB and all PDBs created after the procedure is invoked. To specify ALL , the procedure must be invoked in the root by a common user. If a container name, then grants privileges to the grantee only in the specified container. To specify root, use CDB$ROOT while connected to the root. To specify a PDB, the procedure must be invoked in the root. Note: This parameter only applies to CDBs. |

## Usage Notes

See Also: GRANT_ADMIN_PRIVILEGE Procedure in the DBMS_XSTREAM_AUTH package See Also: GRANT_ADMIN_PRIVILEGE Procedure in the DBMS_XSTREAM_AUTH package Syntax DBMS_GOLDENGATE_AUTH.GRANT_ADMIN_PRIVILEGE( grantee IN VARCHAR2, privilege_type IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT '*', grant_select_privileges IN BOOLEAN DEFAULT TRUE, do_grants IN BOOLEAN DEFAULT TRUE, file_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, directory_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL grant_optional_privileges IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, container IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT 'CURRENT'); Parameters Table 77-2 GRANT_ADMIN_PRIVILEGE Procedure Parameters Parameter Description grantee The user to whom privileges are granted privilege_type Specify one of the following values: CAPTURE Specifying CAPTURE grants the minimum privileges required by the user to administer Oracle GoldenGate integrated extract. APPLY Specifying APPLY grants the minimum privileges required by the user to administer Oracle GoldenGate integrated replicat. * Specifying * grants the minimum privileges required by the user to administer Oracle GoldenGate integrated extract and Oracle GoldenGate integrated replicat. grant_select_privileges If TRUE , then the procedure grants a set of privileges, including SELECT_CATALOG_ROLE , to the user. This setting is recommended for GoldenGate administrators. If FALSE , then the procedure does not grant the set of privileges to the user. SELECT_CATALOG_ROLE enables the user to select from the data dictionary. do_grants If TRUE , then the procedure grants the privileges to the specified grantee directly, and adds the grantee to the DBA_GOLDENGATE_PRIVILEGES data dictionary view. If the user already has an entry in this data dictionary view, then the procedure does not make another entry, and no error is raised. If TRUE and any of the grant statements fails, then the procedure raises an error. If FALSE , then the procedure does not grant the privileges to the specified grantee directly, and does not add the grantee to the DBA_GOLDENGATE_PRIVILEGES data dictionary view. You specify FALSE when the procedure is generating a file that you will run later. If you specify FALSE and either the file_name or directory_name parameter is NULL , then the procedure raises an error. Note: It is recommended that do_grants be set to TRUE because many APIs check for the presence of a user in the DBA_GOLDENGATE_PRIVILEGES view, which will not be populated if do_grants is set to FALSE . file_name The name of the file generated by the procedure. The file contains all of the statements that grant the privileges. If a file with the specified file name exists in the specified directory name, then the grant statements are appended to the existing file. If NULL , then the procedure does not generate a file. directory_name The directory into which the generated file is placed. The specified directory must be a directory object created using the SQL statement CREATE DIRECTORY . If you specify a directory, then the user who invokes the procedure must have the WRITE privilege on the directory object. If t he file_name parameter is NULL , then this parameter is ignored, and the procedure does not generate a file. If NULL and the file_name parameter is non- NULL , then the procedure raises an error. grant_optional_privileges A comma-separated list of optional privileges to grant to the grantee. You can specify the following roles and privileges: XDBADMIN DV_XSTREAM_ADMIN DV_GOLDENGATE_ADMIN EXEMPT_ACCESS_POLICY EXEMPT_REDACTION_POLICY container If CURRENT , then grants privileges to the grantee only in the container where the procedure is invoked. CURRENT can be specified while connected to the root or to a PDB. If ALL , then grants privileges to the grantee in all containers in the CDB and all PDBs created after the procedure is invoked. To specify ALL , the procedure must be invoked in the root by a common user. If a container name, then grants privileges to the grantee only in the specified container. To specify root, use CDB$ROOT while connected to the root. To specify a PDB, the procedure must be invoked in the root. Note: This parameter only applies to CDBs. Usage Notes The user who runs the procedure must be an administrative user who can grant privileges to other users. Specifically, the procedure grants the following privileges to the specified user: The RESTRICTED SESSION system privilege EXECUTE on the following packages: DBMS_APPLY_ADM DBMS_AQ DBMS_AQADM DBMS_AQIN DBMS_AQELM DBMS_CAPTURE_ADM DBMS_FLASHBACK DBMS_LOCK DBMS_PROPAGATION_ADM DBMS_RULE_ADM DBMS_TRANSFORM DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM Privileges to enqueue messages into and dequeue messages from any queue Privileges to manage any queue Privileges to create, alter, and execute any of the following types of objects in the user's own schema and in other schemas: Evaluation contexts Rule sets Rules In addition, the grantee can grant these privileges to other users. SELECT_CATALOG_ROLE SELECT or READ privilege on data dictionary views related to GoldenGate and Oracle Replication The ability to allow a remote GoldenGate administrator to perform administrative actions through a database link by connecting to the grantee This ability is enabled by running the GRANT_REMOTE_ADMIN_ACCESS procedure in this package. Note: This procedure grants only the privileges necessary to configure and administer a GoldenGate environment. You can grant additional privileges to the grantee if necessary. See Also: GRANT_ADMIN_PRIVILEGE Procedure in the DBMS_XSTREAM_AUTH package