---
id: 19c__DBMS_CAPTURE_ADM.SET_PARAMETER
name: DBMS_CAPTURE_ADM.SET_PARAMETER
object_type: plsql_procedure
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_CAPTURE_ADM
tags: [dbms_capture_adm]
source_file: DBMS_CAPTURE_ADM.html
---

# DBMS_CAPTURE_ADM.SET_PARAMETER

This procedure sets a capture process parameter to the specified value.

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_CAPTURE_ADM.SET_PARAMETER(
   capture_name  IN  VARCHAR2,
   parameter     IN  VARCHAR2,
   value         IN  VARCHAR2  DEFAULT NULL);
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Mode | Description |
|-----------|------|------|-------------|
| capture_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | The name of the capture process. Do not specify an owner. |
| parameter | VARCHAR2 | IN | The name of the parameter you are setting. |
| value | VARCHAR2 | IN | The value to which the parameter is set. If NULL , then the parameter is set to its default value. |

## Usage Notes

Syntax DBMS_CAPTURE_ADM.SET_PARAMETER( capture_name IN VARCHAR2, parameter IN VARCHAR2, value IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL); Parameters Table 35-17 SET_PARAMETER Procedure Parameters Parameter Description capture_name The name of the capture process. Do not specify an owner. parameter The name of the parameter you are setting. value The value to which the parameter is set. If NULL , then the parameter is set to its default value. Capture Process Parameters The following table lists the parameters for the capture process. Table 35-18 Capture Process Parameters Parameter Name Possible Values Default Description annotateddlsize 0 or a positive integer up to 4294967296 (4 GB) 0 The maximum length of the DDL text, in bytes, up to which the DDL can be chosen for annotation, if applicable for the DDL. Any DDL text whose size is greater than the specified size is not annotated. The default, 0 , indicates that no DDL text processed by this capture process is annotated. Annotating DDL can simplify filtering and transformation of the DDL within Oracle GoldenGate. Note: This parameter is intended for Oracle GoldenGate. Do not use this parameter in an Oracle Replication environment or in an XStream environment. capture_idkey_objects Y or N N If Y , then the capture process captures ID key logical change records (LCRs). If N , then the capture process does not capture ID key LCRs. Capture processes do not fully support capturing changes to some data types from the redo log. ID key LCRs enable an XStream configuration to capture these changes and process them with an XStream client application. Note: This parameter is intended for XStream. Do not use this parameter in an Oracle Replication environment unless XStream optimizations are enabled by the DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM.ENABLE_GG_XSTREAM_FOR_STREAMS procedure. See " ENABLE_GG_XSTREAM_FOR_STREAMS Procedure " for information about enabling XStream optimizations. See Also: " Usage Notes " for more information about this parameter and Oracle Database XStream Guide for more information about ID key LCRs capture_sequence_nextval Y or N N If Y , then the capture process captures sequence LCRs for all of the sequences in the database, except for sequences in Oracle-supplied, administrative schemas such as SYS and SYSTEM . The capture process's rule sets can filter sequence LCRs in the same way that they filter row LCRs and DDL LCRs. If N , then the capture process does not capture sequence LCRs. An apply process or XStream inbound server can use sequence LCRs to ensure that the sequence values at a destination database use the appropriate values. For increasing sequences, the sequence values at the destination are equal to or greater than the sequence values at the source database. For decreasing sequences, the sequence values at the destination are less than or equal to the sequence values at the source database. Note: This parameter is intended for XStream. Do not use this parameter in an Oracle Replication environment unless XStream optimizations are enabled by the DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM.ENABLE_GG_XSTREAM_FOR_STREAMS procedure. See " ENABLE_GG_XSTREAM_FOR_STREAMS Procedure " for information about enabling XStream optimizations. See Also: " Usage Notes " for more information about this parameter and " SET_PARAMETER Procedure " for information about the apply_sequence_nextval apply process parameter disable_on_limit Y or N N If Y , then the capture process is disabled because it reached a value specified by the time_limit parameter or message_limit parameter. If N , then the capture process is restarted immediately after stopping because it reached a limit. When a capture process is restarted, it starts to capture changes at the point where it last stopped. A restarted capture process gets a new session identifier, and the processes associated with the capture process also get new session identifiers. However, the capture process number ( CP nn ) remains the same. downstream_real_time_mine Y or N Y for local capture processes N for downstream capture processes If Y , then the capture process is a real-time downstream capture process. After setting this parameter to Y , switch the redo log file at the source database using the SQL statement ALTER SYSTEM ARCHIVE LOG CURRENT to begin real-time downstream capture. If this parameter is set to Y , then redo data from the source database must be sent to the standby redo log at the downstream database. If N , then the capture process is an archived-log downstream capture process. An error is raised if an attempt is made to set this parameter for a local capture process. excludetag Comma-delimited list of Oracle Replication tags NULL Controls whether the capture process captures DML changes that are tagged with one of the specified Oracle Replication tags. Whether the capture process captures these changes depends on the settings for the getapplops and getreplicates parameters. If NULL , then the capture process ignores this parameter. Note: This parameter is intended for XStream. Do not use this parameter in an Oracle Replication environment unless XStream optimizations are enabled by the DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM.ENABLE_GG_XSTREAM_FOR_STREAMS procedure. See " ENABLE_GG_XSTREAM_FOR_STREAMS Procedure " for information about enabling XStream optimizations. See Also: " Usage Notes " for more information about this parameter excludetrans Comma-delimited list of transaction names NULL Controls whether the capture process captures DML changes in the specified transaction names. Whether the capture process captures these changes depends on the settings for the getapplops and getreplicates parameters. If NULL , then the capture process ignores this parameter. Note: This parameter is intended for XStream. Do not use this parameter in an Oracle Replication environment unless XStream optimizations are enabled by the DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM.ENABLE_GG_XSTREAM_FOR_STREAMS procedure. See " ENABLE_GG_XSTREAM_FOR_STREAMS Procedure " for information about enabling XStream optimizations. See Also: " Usage Notes " for more information about this parameter excludeuser Comma-delimited list of user names NULL Controls whether the capture process captures DML changes made by the specified users. Whether the capture process captures these changes depends on the settings for the getapplops and getreplicates parameters. Specify an exact pattern match for each user name. The pattern match is case sensitive. For example, specify HR for the hr user. If NULL , then the capture process ignores this parameter. Note: This parameter is intended for XStream. Do not use this parameter in an Oracle Replication environment unless XStream optimizations are enabled by the DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM.ENABLE_GG_XSTREAM_FOR_STREAMS procedure. See " ENABLE_GG_XSTREAM_FOR_STREAMS Procedure " for information about enabling XStream optimizations. See Also: " Usage Notes " for more information about this parameter excludeuserid Comma-delimited list of user ID values NULL Controls whether the capture process captures data manipulation language (DML) changes made by the specified users. Whether the capture process captures these changes depends on the settings for the getapplops and getreplicates parameters. To view the user ID for a user, query the USER_ID column in the ALL_USERS data dictionary view. If NULL , then the capture process ignores this parameter. Note: This parameter is intended for XStream. Do not use this parameter in an Oracle Replication environment unless XStream optimizations are enabled by the DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM.ENABLE_GG_XSTREAM_FOR_STREAMS procedure. See " ENABLE_GG_XSTREAM_FOR_STREAMS Procedure " for information about enabling XStream optimizations. See Also: " Usage Notes " for more information about this parameter getapplops Y or N Y If Y , then the capture process captures DML changes if the original user is not specified in the excludeuserid or excludeuser parameters and the transaction name is not specified in the excludetrans parameter. If N , then the capture process ignores DML changes if the original user is not specified in the excludeuserid or excludeuser parameters and the transaction name is not specified in the excludetrans parameter. In either case, the capture process captures a DML change only if it satisfies the capture process's rule sets. Note: This parameter is intended for XStream. Do not use this parameter in an Oracle Replication environment unless XStream optimizations are enabled by the DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM.ENABLE_GG_XSTREAM_FOR_STREAMS procedure. See " ENABLE_GG_XSTREAM_FOR_STREAMS Procedure " for information about enabling XStream optimizations. See Also: " Usage Notes " for more information about this parameter getreplicates Y or N N If Y , then the capture process captures DML changes if the original user is specified in the excludeuserid or excludeuser parameters and the transaction name is specified in the excludetrans parameter. If N , then the capture process ignores DML changes if the original user is specified in the excludeuserid or excludeuser parameters and the transaction name is specified in the excludetrans parameter. In either case, the capture process captures a DML change only if it satisfies the capture process's rule sets. Note: This parameter is intended for XStream. Do not use this parameter in an Oracle Replication environment unless XStream optimizations are enabled by the DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM.ENABLE_GG_XSTREAM_FOR_STREAMS procedure. See " ENABLE_GG_XSTREAM_FOR_STREAMS Procedure " for information about enabling XStream optimizations. See Also: " Usage Notes " for more information about this parameter ignore_transaction A valid transaction ID or NULL NULL Instructs the capture process to ignore the specified transaction from the source database, effective immediately. The capture process eliminates all subsequent LCRs for the transaction. If the specified transaction is committed successfully at the source database, the destination database will receive a ROLLBACK statement instead, and any LCRs from the transaction that were enqueued before the ignore transaction request are rolled backed at the destination database. If NULL , then the capture process ignores this parameter. Use caution when setting this parameter because ignoring a transaction might lead to data divergence between the source database and destination database. To ignore multiple transactions, specify each transaction in a separate call to the SET_PARAMETER procedure. The DBA_CAPTURE_PARAMETERS view displays a comma-delimited list of all transactions to be ignored. To clear the list of ignored transactions, run the SET_PARAMETER procedure and specify NULL for the ignore_transaction parameter. ignore_unsupported_table A fully qualified table name, * , or - * Controls the behavior of the capture process when it tries to capture changes to a specified table or to an unsupported table. A capture process tries to capture changes to an unsupported table when its rule sets instruct it to do so. If you do not want the capture process to try to capture changes to unsupported tables, then ensure that the capture process's rule sets exclude unsupported tables. When a table name is specified, the capture process does not capture changes to the specified table. The table name must be entered in the form table_owner. table_name . For example. hr.employees . To specify multiple tables, specify each table in a separate call to the SET_PARAMETER procedure. When * is specified and the capture process tries to capture a change to an unsupported table, the capture process ignores the change and continues to run. The change to the unsupported table is not captured, and the capture process records the unsupported table in the alert log. When - is specified and the capture process tries to capture a change to an unsupported table, the capture process aborts. include_objects A list of tables or schema names separated by commas none Directs capture to include changes from the specified tables or schemas. An LCR that is selected by include_objects is passed to the outbound server regardless of any further filtering that is specified. Note: This parameter is intended for XStream. Do not use or attempt to set this parameter in an Oracle Replication environment unless XStream optimizations are enabled by the DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM.ENABLE_GG_XSTREAM_FOR_STREAMS procedure. See " ENABLE_GG_XSTREAM_FOR_STREAMS Procedure " for information about enabling XStream optimizations. See Also: " Usage Notes " for more information about this parameter inline_lob_optimization Y or N N If Y , then LOBs that can be processed inline (such as small LOBs) are included in the LCR directly, rather than sending LOB chunk LCRs. If N , then each LOB column is sent as NULL followed by LOB chunk LCRs to update the LOB column. Note: This parameter is intended for XStream. Do not use or attempt to set this parameter in an Oracle Replication environment unless XStream optimizations are enabled by the DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM.ENABLE_GG_XSTREAM_FOR_STREAMS procedure. See " ENABLE_GG_XSTREAM_FOR_STREAMS Procedure " for information about enabling XStream optimizations. See Also: " Usage Notes " for more information about this parameter maximum_scn A valid SCN or INFINITE INFINITE The capture process is disabled before capturing a change record with an SCN greater than or equal to the value specified. If INFINITE , then the capture process runs regardless of the SCN value. max_sga_size A positive integer INFINITE Controls the amount of system global area (SGA) memory allocated specifically to the capture process, in megabytes. The capture process attempts to allocate memory up to this limit. A capture process uses Oracle LogMiner to scan for changes in the redo log. The memory is allocated for the duration of the capture process session and is released when the capture process becomes disabled. Note: The sum of system global area (SGA) memory allocated for all components on a database must be less than the value set for the STREAMS_POOL_SIZE initialization parameter. If NULL , then the capture component uses the original default value. A NULL value has the same effect as resetting the parameter to its default value. Note: This parameter is intended for XStream. Do not use or attempt to set this parameter in an Oracle Replication environment unless XStream optimizations are enabled by the DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM.ENABLE_GG_XSTREAM_FOR_STREAMS procedure. See " ENABLE_GG_XSTREAM_FOR_STREAMS Procedure " for information about enabling XStream optimizations. See Also: " Usage Notes " for more information about this parameter merge_threshold A negative integer, 0 , a positive integer, or INFINITE 60 The amount of time, in seconds, between the message creation time of the original capture process and the message creation time of the cloned capture process. Specifically, if the difference, in seconds, between the CAPTURE_MESSAGE_CREATE_TIME of the cloned capture process and the original capture process is less than or equal to the value specified for this parameter, then automatic merge begins by running the MERGE_STREAMS procedure. This parameter is relevant only when changes captured by the capture process are applied by two or more apply processes and the split_threshold parameter is set to a value other than INFINITE . If a negative value is specified, then automatic merge is disabled. If 0 (zero) is specified, then there must be no lag between the original capture process and the cloned capture process to begin the merge. If INFINITE is specified, then automatic merging starts immediately. message_limit A positive integer or INFINITE INFINITE The capture process stops after capturing the specified number of messages. If INFINITE , then the capture process continues to run regardless of the number of messages captured. message_tracking_frequency 0 or a positive integer 2000000 The frequency at which messages captured by the capture process are tracked automatically. For example, if this parameter is set to the default value of 2000000 , then every two-millionth message is tracked automatically. The tracking label used for automatic message tracking is capture_process_name :AUTOTRACK , where capture_process_name is the name of the capture process. Only the first 20 bytes of the capture process name are used; the rest is truncated if it exceeds 20 bytes. If 0 (zero), then no messages are tracked automatically. parallelism A positive integer 1 The number of preparer servers that can concurrently mine the redo log for the capture process. A capture process consists of one reader server, one or more preparer servers, and one builder server. The preparer servers concurrently format changes found in the redo log into logical change records (LCRs). Each reader server, preparer server, and builder server is a process, and the number of preparer servers equals the number specified for the parallelism capture process parameter. So, if parallelism is set to 5, then a capture process uses a total of seven processes: one reader server, five preparer servers, and one builder server. Setting the parallelism parameter to a number higher than the number of available parallel execution servers might disable the capture process. Ensure that the PROCESSES initialization parameter is set appropriately when you set the parallelism capture process parameter. Note: When you change the value of this parameter, the capture process is stopped and restarted automatically. skip_autofiltered_table_ddl Y or N Y If Y , then the capture process does not capture data definition language (DDL) changes to tables that are automatically filtered by the capture process. If N , then the capture process can capture DDL changes to tables that are automatically filtered by the capture process if the DDL changes satisfy the capture process rule sets. split_threshold 0 , a positive integer, or INFINITE 1800 The amount of time, in seconds, that a stream is broken before the stream is automatically split from other streams that flow from the capture process. When a stream is split, the capture process, queue, and propagation are cloned. In this case, a stream is a flow of logical change records (LCRs) that flows from a capture process to an apply. A stream is broken when LCRs captured by the capture process cannot reach the apply process. For example, a stream is broken when the relevant propagation or apply process is disabled. This parameter is relevant only when changes captured by the capture process are applied by two or more apply processes. If 0 (zero), then automatic splitting starts immediately. If INFINITE , then automatic splitting is disabled. The stream is not split regardless of the amount of time that it is broken. This parameters is designed to be used with the merge_threshold parameter. startup_seconds 0 , a positive integer, or INFINITE 0 The maximum number of seconds to wait for another instantiation of the same capture process to finish. If the other instantiation of the same capture process does not finish within this time, then the capture process does not start. This parameter is useful only if you are starting the capture process manually. If INFINITE , then the capture process does not start until another instantiation of the same capture process finishes. time_limit A positive integer or INFINITE INFINITE The capture process stops as soon as possible after the specified number of seconds since it started. If INFINITE , then the capture process continues to run until it is stopped explicitly. trace_level 0 or a positive integer 0 Set this parameter only under the guidance of Oracle Support Services. use_rac_service Y or N Y if Replication N if XStream If Y , then the capture process is run in the owning instance of its queue. If N , then the client specifies where the capture process is to run. Note: This parameter is intended for XStream. Do not use or attempt to set this parameter in an Oracle Replication environment unless XStream optimizations are enabled by the DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM.ENABLE_GG_XSTREAM_FOR_STREAMS procedure. See " ENABLE_GG_XSTREAM_FOR_STREAMS Procedure " for information about enabling XStream optimizations. See Also: " Usage Notes " for more information about this parameter write_alert_log Y or N Y If Y , then the capture process writes a message to the alert log on exit. If N , then the capture process does not write a message to the alert log on exit. The message specifies the reason the capture process stopped. xout_client_exists Y or N Y if the capture process sends LCRs to XStream outbound servers N if the capture process sends LCRs to Oracle Apply processes Y indicates that the capture process sends LCRs to one or more XStream outbound servers. N indicates that the capture process sends LCRs to one or more Oracle Apply processes. A single capture process cannot send LCRs to both outbound servers and apply processes. In an XStream configuration where an outbound server runs on a different database than its capture process, set this parameter to Y to enable the capture process to send LCRs to the outbound server. Note: Using XStream requires purchasing a license for the Oracle GoldenGate product. See Oracle Database XStream Guide . Usage Notes The following usage notes apply to the SET_PARAMETER procedure: Delays Are Possible Before New Parameter Settings Take Effect Parameters Interpreted as Positive Integers Parameters with a System Change Number (SCN) Setting Parameters that Require XStream Optimizations XStream or Oracle GoldenGate Integrated Capture Configurations Delays Are Possible Before New Parameter Settings Take Effect When you alter a parameter value, a short amount of time might pass before the new value for the parameter takes effect. Parameters Interpreted as Positive Integers For all parameters that are interpreted as positive integers, the maximum possible value is 4,294,967,295 . Where applicable, specify INFINITE for larger values. Parameters with a System Change Number (SCN) Setting For parameters that require an SCN setting, any valid SCN value can be specified. Parameters that Require XStream Optimizations A capture process uses the following parameters only when the capture process is sending logical change records (LCRs) to an XStream outbound server or when XStream optimizations are enabled for Oracle Replication components: capture_idkey_objects capture_sequence_nextval excludetag excludetrans excludeuser excludeuserid getapplops getreplicates include_objects inline_lob_optimization max_sga_size use_rac_services The DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM.ENABLE_GG_XSTREAM_FOR_STREAMS procedure enables XStream optimizations for Oracle Replication. When XStream optimizations are not enabled by the DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM.ENABLE_GG_XSTREAM_FOR_STREAMS procedure, a capture process raises an error if one of these parameters is set to any value other than its default value. When XStream optimizations are enabled for Oracle Replication and the capture_idkey_objects parameter is set to Y , a capture process can capture ID key LCRs. ID key LCRs do not contain all of the columns for a row change. Instead, they contain the rowid of the changed row, a group of key columns to identify the row in the table, and the data for the scalar columns of the table that are supported by capture processes. An apply process can apply these changes using the information available the ID key LCRs. To determine the database objects for which a capture process will capture ID key LCRs, run the following query on the source database: SELECT OWNER, OBJECT_NAME FROM DBA_XSTREAM_OUT_SUPPORT_MODE WHERE SUPPORT_MODE='ID KEY'; Note: Using XStream requires purchasing a license for the Oracle GoldenGate product. See Oracle Database XStream Guide . See Also: Oracle Database XStream Guide for more information about ID key LCRs XStream or Oracle GoldenGate Integrated Capture Configurations In an XStream or Oracle GoldenGate integrated capture configuration, the following parameters control which changes are captured by a capture process: capture_idkey_objects capture_sequence_nextval excludetag excludetrans excludeuser excludeuserid getapplops getreplicates include_objects inline_lob_optimization max_sga_size use_rac_services You can set these parameters to avoid change cycling. Change cycling sends a change back to the database where it originated. Typically, change cycling should be avoided in a replication environment so that the same change is not made to a database more than once. In an XStream or Oracle GoldenGate integrated capture configuration that performs bi-directional replication, a GoldenGate Replicat process runs on the source database for a capture process. Therefore, the changes made by the GoldenGate Replicat are recorded in the redo log. If an integrated configuration performs bi-directional replication, then, to avoid change cycling, the capture process should not capture the changes made by the Oracle GoldenGate Replicat process. To accomplish this goal, use the default settings for the getapplops and getreplicates parameters and exclude changes made by the user running the Replicat process. To exclude these changes, specify this user in the excludeuserid or excludeuser parameter. Typically, the user running the Oracle GoldenGate Replicat process is the XStream administrator. In some configurations, the goal might be to capture or exclude changes made by applications or by the Replicat process. For example, an intermediate database in a replication environment might capture all of the changes made to the database, including both application changes and Replicat process changes, and send these changes to a different destination database. Table 35-19 describes the capture process behavior when at least one of the exclude parameters is non- NULL . Table 35-19 Behavior When at Least One exclude Parameter Is Non-NULL getapplops Setting getreplicates Setting Description Y Y The capture process captures all DML changes. Y N The capture process captures the DML changes made by the users that are not in the excludeuserid or excludeuser parameters. The capture process captures the DML changes that are not in the transactions in the excludetrans parameter. The capture process captures only the DML changes that do not have a tag that is in the excludetags parameter. N Y The capture process captures only the DML changes made by the users that are in the excludeuserid or excludeuser parameters. The capture process captures only the DML changes that are in the transactions in the excludetrans parameter. The capture process captures only the DML changes that have a tag that is in the excludetags parameter. N N The capture process does not capture any DML changes. Table 35-19 describes the capture process behavior when all of the exclude parameters are set to NULL . Table 35-20 Behavior When All exclude Parameters Are Set to NULL getapplops Setting getreplicates Setting Description Y Y The capture process captures all DML changes. Y N The capture process captures all DML changes. N Y The capture process does not capture any DML changes. N N The capture process does not capture any DML changes. See the documentation for the Oracle GoldenGate product for more information: http://docs.oracle.com/cd/E15881_01/index.htm Note: A capture process evaluates a change using these parameters before it evaluates a change using its rule sets. Therefore, a capture process can discard a change before the change is evaluated against the capture process's rule sets. Also, regardless of the settings for these parameters, a capture process captures a change only if the change satisfies the capture process's rule sets. See Also: Oracle Database XStream Guide Note: Using XStream requires purchasing a license for the Oracle GoldenGate product. See Oracle Database XStream Guide .