---
id: 19c__DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM.MERGE_STREAMS_JOB
name: DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM.MERGE_STREAMS_JOB
object_type: plsql_procedure
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM
tags: [dbms_xstream_adm]
source_file: DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM.html
---

# DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM.MERGE_STREAMS_JOB

This procedure determines whether the original capture process and the cloned capture process are within the specified merge threshold. If they are within the merge threshold, then this procedure runs the MERGE_STREAMS procedure to merge the two streams.

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM.MERGE_STREAMS_JOB(
   cloned_propagation_name IN VARCHAR2,
   propagation_name        IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL,
   queue_name              IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL,
   merge_threshold         IN NUMBER,
   schedule_name           IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL,
   merge_job_name          IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL);
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Mode | Description |
|-----------|------|------|-------------|
| cloned_propagation_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | The name of the cloned propagation used by the stream that was split off from the original stream using the SPLIT_STREAMS procedure. The name of the cloned propagation also identifies the cloned queue and capture process used by the cloned propagation. You must specify an existing propagation name. Do not specify an owner. |
| propagation_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | The name of the propagation that is merged back to the original stream. If NULL , then the name of the original propagation in the original stream is used. Specify NULL only if the streams were split using the SPLIT_STREAMS procedure. Specify a non- NULL value to use a name that is different from the original propagation name or if you are merging two streams that were not split by the SPLIT_STREAMS procedure. If a non- NULL value is specified, then an error is raised under either of the following conditions: The queue specified in the queue_name parameter does not exist. The queue specified in the queue_name parameter exists but is not used by a capture process. |
| queue_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | The name of the queue that is the source queue for the propagation that is merged back. If NULL , then the existing, original queue is the source queue for the propagation that is merged back. Specify NULL only if the streams were split using the SPLIT_STREAMS procedure. Specify a non- NULL value if you are merging two streams that were not split by the SPLIT_STREAMS procedure. Specify the name of the existing queue used by the capture process that will capture changes in the merged stream. |
| merge_threshold | NUMBER | IN | The merge threshold in seconds. The value of the CAPTURE_MESSAGE_CREATE_TIME column for each capture process in the GV$XSTREAM_CAPTURE dynamic performance view determines whether the streams are merged. Specifically, if the difference, in seconds, between the CAPTURE_MESSAGE_CREATE_TIME of the cloned capture process and the original capture process is less than or equal to the value specified for this parameter, then this procedure runs the MERGE_STREAMS procedure to merge the streams. If the difference is greater than the value specified by this parameter, then this procedure does nothing. |
| schedule_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | The name of the schedule for the merge job. If NULL , then no schedule name is specified. Typically, you set this parameter to NULL when the auto_merge_threshold parameter was set to NULL or 0 (zero) in the SPLIT_STREAMS procedure that split the streams. Specify NULL if you run this procedure manually. |
| merge_job_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | The name of the job that merges the streams. If NULL , then no merge job name is specified. Typically, you set this parameter to NULL when the auto_merge_threshold parameter was set to NULL or 0 (zero) in the SPLIT_STREAMS procedure that split the streams. Specify NULL if you run this procedure manually. |

## Usage Notes

Typically, this procedure is used to merge two streams that were split using the SPLIT_STREAMS procedure in this package. The SPLIT_STREAMS procedure clones components of the original stream when it splits the streams. Therefore, the information in this section uses the following terminology: The stream before it was split off has the original queue, original capture process, and original propagation. The stream that was split off by the SPLIT_STREAMS procedure has a cloned queue, cloned capture process, and cloned propagation. If the auto_merge_threshold parameter was set to a positive number in the SPLIT_STREAMS procedure that split the streams, then a merge job runs the MERGE_STREAMS_JOB procedure automatically according to its schedule. The schedule name is specified for the schedule_name parameter, and the merge job name is specified for the merge_job_name parameter when the MERGE_STREAMS_JOB procedure is run automatically. The merge job and its schedule were created by the SPLIT_STREAMS procedure. If the auto_merge_threshold parameter was set to NULL or 0 (zero) in the SPLIT_STREAMS procedure that split the streams, then you can run the MERGE_STREAMS_JOB procedure manually. In this case, it is not run automatically. See Also: MERGE_STREAMS Procedure SPLIT_STREAMS Procedure See Also: MERGE_STREAMS Procedure SPLIT_STREAMS Procedure Syntax DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM.MERGE_STREAMS_JOB( cloned_propagation_name IN VARCHAR2, propagation_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, queue_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, merge_threshold IN NUMBER, schedule_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, merge_job_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL); Parameters Table 217-23 MERGE_STREAMS_JOB Procedure Parameters Parameter Description cloned_propagation_name The name of the cloned propagation used by the stream that was split off from the original stream using the SPLIT_STREAMS procedure. The name of the cloned propagation also identifies the cloned queue and capture process used by the cloned propagation. You must specify an existing propagation name. Do not specify an owner. propagation_name The name of the propagation that is merged back to the original stream. If NULL , then the name of the original propagation in the original stream is used. Specify NULL only if the streams were split using the SPLIT_STREAMS procedure. Specify a non- NULL value to use a name that is different from the original propagation name or if you are merging two streams that were not split by the SPLIT_STREAMS procedure. If a non- NULL value is specified, then an error is raised under either of the following conditions: The queue specified in the queue_name parameter does not exist. The queue specified in the queue_name parameter exists but is not used by a capture process. queue_name The name of the queue that is the source queue for the propagation that is merged back. If NULL , then the existing, original queue is the source queue for the propagation that is merged back. Specify NULL only if the streams were split using the SPLIT_STREAMS procedure. Specify a non- NULL value if you are merging two streams that were not split by the SPLIT_STREAMS procedure. Specify the name of the existing queue used by the capture process that will capture changes in the merged stream. merge_threshold The merge threshold in seconds. The value of the CAPTURE_MESSAGE_CREATE_TIME column for each capture process in the GV$XSTREAM_CAPTURE dynamic performance view determines whether the streams are merged. Specifically, if the difference, in seconds, between the CAPTURE_MESSAGE_CREATE_TIME of the cloned capture process and the original capture process is less than or equal to the value specified for this parameter, then this procedure runs the MERGE_STREAMS procedure to merge the streams. If the difference is greater than the value specified by this parameter, then this procedure does nothing. schedule_name The name of the schedule for the merge job. If NULL , then no schedule name is specified. Typically, you set this parameter to NULL when the auto_merge_threshold parameter was set to NULL or 0 (zero) in the SPLIT_STREAMS procedure that split the streams. Specify NULL if you run this procedure manually. merge_job_name The name of the job that merges the streams. If NULL , then no merge job name is specified. Typically, you set this parameter to NULL when the auto_merge_threshold parameter was set to NULL or 0 (zero) in the SPLIT_STREAMS procedure that split the streams. Specify NULL if you run this procedure manually. Usage Notes You can use the MERGE_STREAMS_JOB procedure to merge two streams that were not split using the SPLIT_STREAMS procedure. Merging streams in this way can save resources and improve performance when a single database is running two or more capture processes. After the MERGE_STREAMS_JOB procedure completes, you can query the DBA_CAPTURE and DBA_PROPAGATION views to determine whether the streams were merged. If the streams were merged, then the cloned capture process and cloned propagation do not appear in these views. If the streams were merged and the schedule_name and merge_job_name parameters were non- NULL , then the specified schedule and merge job are deleted automatically.