---
id: 19c__DBMS_DATA_MINING_TRANSFORM.INSERT_BIN_SUPER
name: DBMS_DATA_MINING_TRANSFORM.INSERT_BIN_SUPER
object_type: plsql_procedure
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_DATA_MINING_TRANSFORM
tags: [dbms_data_mining_transform]
source_file: DBMS_DATA_MINING_TRANSFORM.html
---

# DBMS_DATA_MINING_TRANSFORM.INSERT_BIN_SUPER

This procedure performs numerical and categorical binning and inserts the transformation definitions in transformation definition tables. The procedure computes bin boundaries based on intrinsic relationships between predictors and a target.

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_DATA_MINING_TRANSFORM.INSERT_BIN_SUPER (
    num_table_name        IN VARCHAR2,
    cat_table_name        IN VARCHAR2,
    data_table_name       IN VARCHAR2,
    target_column_name    IN VARCHAR2,
    max_bin_num           IN PLS_INTEGER  DEFAULT 1000,
    exclude_list          IN COLUMN_LIST  DEFAULT NULL,
    num_schema_name       IN VARCHAR2     DEFAULT NULL,
    cat_schema_name       IN VARCHAR2     DEFAULT NULL,
    data_schema_name      IN VARCHAR2     DEFAULT NULL,
    rem_table_name        IN VARCHAR2     DEFAULT NULL,
    rem_schema_name       IN VARCHAR2     DEFAULT NULL);
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Mode | Description |
|-----------|------|------|-------------|
| num_table_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Name of the transformation definition table for numerical binning. You can use the CREATE_BIN_NUM Procedure to create the definition table. The following columns are required: COL VARCHAR2(30) VAL VNUMBER BIN VARCHAR2(4000) CREATE_BIN_NUM creates an additional column, ATT , which may be used for specifying nested attributes. This column is not used by INSERT_BIN_SUPER . |
| cat_table_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Name of the transformation definition table for categorical binning. You can use the CREATE_BIN_CAT Procedure to create the definition table. The following columns are required: COL VARCHAR2(30) VAL VARCHAR2(4000) BIN VARCHAR2(4000) CREATE_BIN_CAT creates an additional column, ATT , which is used for specifying nested attributes. This column is not used by INSERT_BIN_SUPER . |
| data_table_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Name of the table containing the data to be transformed |
| target_column_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Name of a column to be used as the target for the decision tree models |
| max_bin_num | PLS_INTEGER | IN | The maximum number of bins. The default is 1000. |
| exclude_list | COLUMN_LIST | IN | List of columns to be excluded from the binning process. If you do not specify exclude_list , all numerical and categorical columns in the data source are binned. The format of exclude_list is: dbms_data_mining_transform.COLUMN_LIST('col 1 ','col 2 ', ...'col n ') |
| num_schema_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Schema of num_table_name . If no schema is specified, the current schema is used. |
| cat_schema_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Schema of cat_table_name . If no schema is specified, the current schema is used. |
| data_schema_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Schema of data_table_name . If no schema is specified, the current schema is used. |
| rem_table_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Name of a column removal definition table. The table must have the columns described in " CREATE_COL_REM Procedure " . You can use CREATE_COL_REM to create the table. See Usage Notes. |
| rem_schema_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Schema of rem_table_name . If no schema is specified, the current schema is used. |

## Usage Notes

INSERT_BIN_SUPER uses an intelligent binning technique known as supervised binning . It builds a single-predictor decision tree and derives the bin boundaries from splits within the tree. INSERT_BIN_SUPER bins all the VARCHAR2 , CHAR , NUMBER , and FLOAT columns in the data source unless you specify a list of columns to ignore. Syntax DBMS_DATA_MINING_TRANSFORM.INSERT_BIN_SUPER ( num_table_name IN VARCHAR2, cat_table_name IN VARCHAR2, data_table_name IN VARCHAR2, target_column_name IN VARCHAR2, max_bin_num IN PLS_INTEGER DEFAULT 1000, exclude_list IN COLUMN_LIST DEFAULT NULL, num_schema_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, cat_schema_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, data_schema_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, rem_table_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, rem_schema_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL); Parameters Table 48-24 INSERT_BIN_SUPER Procedure Parameters Parameter Description num_table_name Name of the transformation definition table for numerical binning. You can use the CREATE_BIN_NUM Procedure to create the definition table. The following columns are required: COL VARCHAR2(30) VAL VNUMBER BIN VARCHAR2(4000) CREATE_BIN_NUM creates an additional column, ATT , which may be used for specifying nested attributes. This column is not used by INSERT_BIN_SUPER . cat_table_name Name of the transformation definition table for categorical binning. You can use the CREATE_BIN_CAT Procedure to create the definition table. The following columns are required: COL VARCHAR2(30) VAL VARCHAR2(4000) BIN VARCHAR2(4000) CREATE_BIN_CAT creates an additional column, ATT , which is used for specifying nested attributes. This column is not used by INSERT_BIN_SUPER . data_table_name Name of the table containing the data to be transformed target_column_name Name of a column to be used as the target for the decision tree models max_bin_num The maximum number of bins. The default is 1000. exclude_list List of columns to be excluded from the binning process. If you do not specify exclude_list , all numerical and categorical columns in the data source are binned. The format of exclude_list is: dbms_data_mining_transform.COLUMN_LIST('col 1 ','col 2 ', ...'col n ') num_schema_name Schema of num_table_name . If no schema is specified, the current schema is used. cat_schema_name Schema of cat_table_name . If no schema is specified, the current schema is used. data_schema_name Schema of data_table_name . If no schema is specified, the current schema is used. rem_table_name Name of a column removal definition table. The table must have the columns described in " CREATE_COL_REM Procedure " . You can use CREATE_COL_REM to create the table. See Usage Notes. rem_schema_name Schema of rem_table_name . If no schema is specified, the current schema is used. Usage Notes See Oracle Data Mining User's Guide for details about numerical and categorical data. Columns that have no significant splits are not binned. You can remove the unbinned columns from the mining data by specifying a column removal definition table. If you do not specify a column removal definition table, the unbinned columns remain in the mining data. See Oracle Data Mining Concepts to learn more about decision trees in Oracle Data Mining Examples In this example, INSERT_BIN_SUPER computes the bin boundaries for predictors of cust_credit_limit and inserts the transformations in transformation definition tables. One predictor is numerical, the other is categorical. ( INSERT_BIN_SUPER determines that the cust_postal_code column is not a significant predictor.) STACK procedures create transformation lists from the contents of the definition tables. The SQL expressions that compute the transformations are shown in the views MINING_DATA_STACK_NUM and MINING_DATA_STACK_CAT . The views are for display purposes only; they cannot be used to embed the transformations in a model. CREATE OR REPLACE VIEW mining_data AS SELECT cust_id, cust_year_of_birth, cust_marital_status, cust_postal_code, cust_credit_limit FROM sh.customers; DESCRIBE mining_data Name Null? Type -------------------------------- -------- ------------------------------------ CUST_ID NOT NULL NUMBER CUST_YEAR_OF_BIRTH NOT NULL NUMBER(4) CUST_MARITAL_STATUS VARCHAR2(20) CUST_POSTAL_CODE NOT NULL VARCHAR2(10) CUST_CREDIT_LIMIT NUMBER BEGIN dbms_data_mining_transform.CREATE_BIN_NUM( bin_table_name => 'bin_num_tbl'); dbms_data_mining_transform.CREATE_BIN_CAT( bin_table_name => 'bin_cat_tbl'); dbms_data_mining_transform.CREATE_COL_REM( rem_table_name => 'rem_tbl'); END; / BEGIN COMMIT; dbms_data_mining_transform.INSERT_BIN_SUPER ( num_table_name => 'bin_num_tbl', cat_table_name => 'bin_cat_tbl', data_table_name => 'mining_data', target_column_name => 'cust_credit_limit', max_bin_num => 4, exclude_list => dbms_data_mining_transform.COLUMN_LIST('cust_id'), num_schema_name => 'dmuser', cat_schema_name => 'dmuser', data_schema_name => 'dmuser', rem_table_name => 'rem_tbl', rem_schema_name => 'dmuser'); COMMIT; END; / set numwidth 8 column val off SELECT col, val, bin FROM bin_num_tbl ORDER BY bin ASC; COL VAL BIN -------------------- -------- ---------- CUST_YEAR_OF_BIRTH 1923.5 1 CUST_YEAR_OF_BIRTH 1923.5 1 CUST_YEAR_OF_BIRTH 1945.5 2 CUST_YEAR_OF_BIRTH 1980.5 3 CUST_YEAR_OF_BIRTH 4 column val on column val format a20 SELECT col, val, bin FROM bin_cat_tbl ORDER BY bin ASC; COL VAL BIN -------------------- -------------------- ---------- CUST_MARITAL_STATUS married 1 CUST_MARITAL_STATUS single 2 CUST_MARITAL_STATUS Mar-AF 3 CUST_MARITAL_STATUS Mabsent 3 CUST_MARITAL_STATUS Divorc. 3 CUST_MARITAL_STATUS Married 3 CUST_MARITAL_STATUS Widowed 3 CUST_MARITAL_STATUS NeverM 3 CUST_MARITAL_STATUS Separ. 3 CUST_MARITAL_STATUS divorced 4 CUST_MARITAL_STATUS widow 4 SELECT col from rem_tbl; COL -------------------- CUST_POSTAL_CODE DECLARE xforms_num dbms_data_mining_transform.TRANSFORM_LIST; xforms_cat dbms_data_mining_transform.TRANSFORM_LIST; BEGIN dbms_data_mining_transform.STACK_BIN_NUM ( bin_table_name => 'bin_num_tbl', xform_list => xforms_num); dbms_data_mining_transform.XFORM_STACK ( xform_list => xforms_num, data_table_name => 'mining_data', xform_view_name => 'mining_data_stack_num'); dbms_data_mining_transform.STACK_BIN_CAT ( bin_table_name => 'bin_cat_tbl', xform_list => xforms_cat); dbms_data_mining_transform.XFORM_STACK ( xform_list => xforms_cat, data_table_name => 'mining_data', xform_view_name => 'mining_data_stack_cat'); END; / set long 3000 SELECT text FROM user_views WHERE view_name IN 'MINING_DATA_STACK_NUM'; TEXT -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- SELECT "CUST_ID",CASE WHEN "CUST_YEAR_OF_BIRTH"<1923.5 THEN '1' WHEN "CUST_YEAR_ OF_BIRTH"<=1923.5 THEN '1' WHEN "CUST_YEAR_OF_BIRTH"<=1945.5 THEN '2' WHEN "CUST _YEAR_OF_BIRTH"<=1980.5 THEN '3' WHEN "CUST_YEAR_OF_BIRTH" IS NOT NULL THEN '4' END "CUST_YEAR_OF_BIRTH","CUST_MARITAL_STATUS","CUST_POSTAL_CODE","CUST_CREDIT_L IMIT" FROM mining_data SELECT text FROM user_views WHERE view_name IN 'MINING_DATA_STACK_CAT'; TEXT -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- SELECT "CUST_ID","CUST_YEAR_OF_BIRTH",DECODE("CUST_MARITAL_STATUS",'Divorc.','3' ,'Mabsent','3','Mar-AF','3','Married','3','NeverM','3','Separ.','3','Widowed','3 ','divorced','4','married','1','single','2','widow','4') "CUST_MARITAL_STATUS"," CUST_POSTAL_CODE","CUST_CREDIT_LIMIT" FROM mining_data