---
id: 19c__DBMS_APPLY_ADM.SET_UPDATE_CONFLICT_HANDLER
name: DBMS_APPLY_ADM.SET_UPDATE_CONFLICT_HANDLER
object_type: plsql_procedure
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_APPLY_ADM
tags: [dbms_apply_adm]
source_file: DBMS_APPLY_ADM.html
---

# DBMS_APPLY_ADM.SET_UPDATE_CONFLICT_HANDLER

This procedure adds, modifies, or removes a prebuilt update conflict handler for the specified object.

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_APPLY_ADM.SET_UPDATE_CONFLICT_HANDLER(
   object_name          IN  VARCHAR2,
   method_name          IN  VARCHAR2,
   resolution_column    IN  VARCHAR2,
   column_list          IN  DBMS_UTILITY.NAME_ARRAY,
   apply_database_link  IN  VARCHAR2  DEFAULT NULL);
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Mode | Description |
|-----------|------|------|-------------|
| object_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | The schema and name of the table, specified as [ schema_name .] object_name , for which an update conflict handler is being added, modified, or removed. For example, if an update conflict handler is being added for table employees owned by user hr , then specify hr.employees . If the schema is not specified, then the current user is the default. |
| method_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Type of update conflict handler to create. You can specify one of the prebuilt handlers, which determine whether the column list from the source database is applied for the row or whether the values in the row at the destination database are retained: MAXIMUM : Applies the column list from the source database if it has the greater value for the resolution column. Otherwise, retains the values at the destination database. MINIMUM : Applies the column list from the source database if it has the lesser value for the resolution column. Otherwise, retains the values at the destination database. OVERWRITE : Applies the column list from the source database, overwriting the column values at the destination database. DISCARD : Retains the column list from the destination database, discarding the column list from the source database. If NULL , then the procedure removes any existing update conflict handler with the same object_name , resolution_column , and column_list . If non- NULL , then the procedure replaces any existing update conflict handler with the same object_name and resolution_column . |
| resolution_column | VARCHAR2 | IN | Name of the column used to uniquely identify an update conflict handler. For the MAXIMUM and MINIMUM prebuilt methods, the resolution column is also used to resolve the conflict. The resolution column must be one of the columns listed in the column_list parameter. NULL is not allowed for this parameter. For the OVERWRITE and DISCARD prebuilt methods, you can specify any column in the column list. |
| column_list | DBMS_UTILITY.NAME_ARRAY | IN | List of columns for which the conflict handler is called. The same column cannot be in more than one column list. If a conflict occurs for one or more of the columns in the list when an apply component tries to apply a row logical change record (row LCR), then the conflict handler is called to resolve the conflict. The conflict handler is not called if a conflict occurs only for columns that are not in the list. Note: Prebuilt update conflict handlers do not support LOB, LONG , LONG RAW , user-defined type, and Oracle-suppled type columns. Therefore, you should not include these types of columns in the column_list parameter. |
| apply_database_link | VARCHAR2 | IN | The name of the database link to a non-Oracle database. This parameter should be set only when the destination database is a non-Oracle database. Note: Currently, conflict handlers are not supported when applying changes to a non-Oracle database. |

## Usage Notes

Syntax DBMS_APPLY_ADM.SET_UPDATE_CONFLICT_HANDLER( object_name IN VARCHAR2, method_name IN VARCHAR2, resolution_column IN VARCHAR2, column_list IN DBMS_UTILITY.NAME_ARRAY, apply_database_link IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL); Parameters Table 21-27 SET_UPDATE_CONFLICT_HANDLER Procedure Parameters Parameter Description object_name The schema and name of the table, specified as [ schema_name .] object_name , for which an update conflict handler is being added, modified, or removed. For example, if an update conflict handler is being added for table employees owned by user hr , then specify hr.employees . If the schema is not specified, then the current user is the default. method_name Type of update conflict handler to create. You can specify one of the prebuilt handlers, which determine whether the column list from the source database is applied for the row or whether the values in the row at the destination database are retained: MAXIMUM : Applies the column list from the source database if it has the greater value for the resolution column. Otherwise, retains the values at the destination database. MINIMUM : Applies the column list from the source database if it has the lesser value for the resolution column. Otherwise, retains the values at the destination database. OVERWRITE : Applies the column list from the source database, overwriting the column values at the destination database. DISCARD : Retains the column list from the destination database, discarding the column list from the source database. If NULL , then the procedure removes any existing update conflict handler with the same object_name , resolution_column , and column_list . If non- NULL , then the procedure replaces any existing update conflict handler with the same object_name and resolution_column . resolution_column Name of the column used to uniquely identify an update conflict handler. For the MAXIMUM and MINIMUM prebuilt methods, the resolution column is also used to resolve the conflict. The resolution column must be one of the columns listed in the column_list parameter. NULL is not allowed for this parameter. For the OVERWRITE and DISCARD prebuilt methods, you can specify any column in the column list. column_list List of columns for which the conflict handler is called. The same column cannot be in more than one column list. If a conflict occurs for one or more of the columns in the list when an apply component tries to apply a row logical change record (row LCR), then the conflict handler is called to resolve the conflict. The conflict handler is not called if a conflict occurs only for columns that are not in the list. Note: Prebuilt update conflict handlers do not support LOB, LONG , LONG RAW , user-defined type, and Oracle-suppled type columns. Therefore, you should not include these types of columns in the column_list parameter. apply_database_link The name of the database link to a non-Oracle database. This parameter should be set only when the destination database is a non-Oracle database. Note: Currently, conflict handlers are not supported when applying changes to a non-Oracle database. Usage Notes The following usage notes apply to this procedure: Modifying an Existing Update Conflict Handler Removing an Existing Update Conflict Handler Series of Actions for Conflicts Procedure DML Handlers for Conflicts A Column Can Be in Only One Column List Update Conflict Handlers and Non-Oracle Databases The SET_UPDATE_CONFLICT_HANDLER Procedure and XStream Outbound Servers The SET_UPDATE_CONFLICT_HANDLER Procedure and XStream Inbound Servers Modifying an Existing Update Conflict Handler If you want to modify an existing update conflict handler, then you specify the table and resolution column of an the existing update conflict handler. You can modify the prebuilt method or the column list. Removing an Existing Update Conflict Handler If you want to remove an existing update conflict handler, then specify NULL for the prebuilt method and specify the table, column list, and resolution column of the existing update conflict handler. Series of Actions for Conflicts If an update conflict occurs, then Oracle completes the following series of actions: Calls the appropriate update conflict handler to resolve the conflict If no update conflict handler is specified or if the update conflict handler cannot resolve the conflict, then calls the appropriate error handler for the apply component, table, and operation to handle the error If no error handler is specified or if the error handler cannot resolve the error, then raises an error and moves the transaction containing the row LCR that caused the error to the error queue See Also: " Signature of a DML Handler Procedure or Error Handler Procedure " for information about setting an error handler Procedure DML Handlers for Conflicts If you cannot use a prebuilt update conflict handler to meet your requirements, then you can create a PL/SQL procedure to use as a custom conflict handler. You use the SET_DML_HANDLER procedure to designate one or more custom conflict handlers for a particular table. In addition, a custom conflict handler can process LOB columns and use LOB assembly. See Also: SET_DML_HANDLER Procedure A Column Can Be in Only One Column List When a column is in a column list, and you try to add the same column to another column list, this procedure returns the following error: ORA-00001: UNIQUE CONSTRAINT (SYS.APPLY$_CONF_HDLR_COLUMNS_UNQ1) VIOLATED Update Conflict Handlers and Non-Oracle Databases Setting an update conflict handler for an apply component that is applying to a non-Oracle database is not supported. The SET_UPDATE_CONFLICT_HANDLER Procedure and XStream Outbound Servers This procedure has no effect on XStream outbound servers. The SET_UPDATE_CONFLICT_HANDLER Procedure and XStream Inbound Servers This procedure functions the same way for apply processes and inbound servers. See Also: " Signature of a DML Handler Procedure or Error Handler Procedure " for information about setting an error handler See Also: SET_DML_HANDLER Procedure