---
id: 19c__DBMS_WORKLOAD_CAPTURE.START_CAPTURE
name: DBMS_WORKLOAD_CAPTURE.START_CAPTURE
object_type: plsql_procedure
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_WORKLOAD_CAPTURE
tags: [dbms_workload_capture]
source_file: DBMS_WORKLOAD_CAPTURE.html
---

# DBMS_WORKLOAD_CAPTURE.START_CAPTURE

This procedure initiates workload capture on all instances.

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_WORKLOAD_CAPTURE.START_CAPTURE (
   name              IN  VARCHAR2,
   dir               IN  VARCHAR2,
   duration          IN  NUMBER   DEFAULT NULL,
   default_action    IN  VARCHAR2 DEFAULT 'INCLUDE',
   auto_unrestrict   IN  BOOLEAN  DEFAULT TRUE,
   capture_sts       IN  BOOLEAN  DEFAULT FALSE,
   sts_cap_interval  IN  NUMBER   DEFAULT 300,
   plsql_mode        IN  VARCHAR2 DEFAULT 'TOP_LEVEL',
   encryption        IN  VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL);
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Mode | Description |
|-----------|------|------|-------------|
| name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Name of the workload capture. Allows the workload capture to be given a label, such as "Thanksgiving weekend" or "Christmas peak workload" for future reference. The workload capture's name is preserved along with the captured workload actions. (Mandatory) |
| dir | VARCHAR2 | IN | Name of the DIRECTORY object (case sensitive) where all the workload capture files are stored. Should contain enough space to hold all the workload capture files. (Mandatory) |
| duration | NUMBER | IN | Optional input to specify the duration (in seconds) for which the workload needs to be captured. DEFAULT is NULL which means that workload capture continues until the user executes DBMS_WORKLOAD_CAPTURE . FINISH_CAPTURE . |
| default_action | VARCHAR2 | IN | Can be either INCLUDE or EXCLUDE . Determines whether, by default, every user request should be captured or not. Also determines whether the workload filters specified should be considered as INCLUSION filters or EXCLUSION filters. If INCLUDE , by default all user requests to the database are captured, except for the part of the workload defined by the filters. In this case, all the filters specified using the ADD_FILTER Procedures are treated as EXCLUSION filters, determining the workload that is not captured. ( DEFAULT , and so all the filters specified are assumed to be EXCLUSION filters.) If EXCLUDE , by default no user request to the database is captured, except for the part of the workload defined by the filters. In this case, all the filters specified using the ADD_FILTER Procedures are treated as INCLUSION filters, determining the workload that is captured. |
| auto_unrestrict | BOOLEAN | IN | Can be either TRUE or FALSE . If TRUE , all instances started up in RESTRICTED mode using STARTUP RESTRICT are automatically unrestricted upon a successful START_CAPTURE . ( DEFAULT ) If FALSE , no database instance is automatically unrestricted. |
| capture_sts | BOOLEAN | IN | If this parameter is TRUE , a SQL tuning set capture is also started in parallel with workload capture. The resulting SQL tuning set can be exported using the EXPORT_AWR Procedure along with the AWR data. Currently, parallel STS capture is not supported in an Oracle RAC environment, so this parameter has no effect if used in that context. Capture filters defined using the DBMS_WORKLOAD_REPLAY interface do not apply to the SQL tuning set capture. The calling user must have the appropriate privileges (' ADMINISTER SQL TUNING SET '). If starting SQL set capture fails, workload capture is stopped. The reason is stored in DBA_WORKLOAD_CAPTURES . ERROR_MESSAGE . The default value is FALSE . |
| sts_cap_interval | NUMBER | IN | Specifies the capture interval of the SQL set capture from the cursor cache in seconds. The default value is 300. |
| plsql_mode | VARCHAR2 | IN | Specifies the PL/SQL capture mode: TOP_LEVEL — only top-level PL/SQL calls are captured EXTENDED — both top-level PL/SQL calls and SQL called from PL/SQL are captured |
| encryption | VARCHAR2 | IN | Specify if sensitive data in workload capture is encrypted or not. The possible values are: NULL — capture files are not encrypted AES128 — capture files are encrypted using AES128 AES192 — capture files are encrypted using AES192 AES256 — capture files is encrypted using AES256 The default value is NULL . |

## Usage Notes

Syntax DBMS_WORKLOAD_CAPTURE.START_CAPTURE ( name IN VARCHAR2, dir IN VARCHAR2, duration IN NUMBER DEFAULT NULL, default_action IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT 'INCLUDE', auto_unrestrict IN BOOLEAN DEFAULT TRUE, capture_sts IN BOOLEAN DEFAULT FALSE, sts_cap_interval IN NUMBER DEFAULT 300, plsql_mode IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT 'TOP_LEVEL', encryption IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL); Parameters Table 190-13 START_CAPTURE Procedure Parameters Parameter Description name Name of the workload capture. Allows the workload capture to be given a label, such as "Thanksgiving weekend" or "Christmas peak workload" for future reference. The workload capture's name is preserved along with the captured workload actions. (Mandatory) dir Name of the DIRECTORY object (case sensitive) where all the workload capture files are stored. Should contain enough space to hold all the workload capture files. (Mandatory) duration Optional input to specify the duration (in seconds) for which the workload needs to be captured. DEFAULT is NULL which means that workload capture continues until the user executes DBMS_WORKLOAD_CAPTURE . FINISH_CAPTURE . default_action Can be either INCLUDE or EXCLUDE . Determines whether, by default, every user request should be captured or not. Also determines whether the workload filters specified should be considered as INCLUSION filters or EXCLUSION filters. If INCLUDE , by default all user requests to the database are captured, except for the part of the workload defined by the filters. In this case, all the filters specified using the ADD_FILTER Procedures are treated as EXCLUSION filters, determining the workload that is not captured. ( DEFAULT , and so all the filters specified are assumed to be EXCLUSION filters.) If EXCLUDE , by default no user request to the database is captured, except for the part of the workload defined by the filters. In this case, all the filters specified using the ADD_FILTER Procedures are treated as INCLUSION filters, determining the workload that is captured. auto_unrestrict Can be either TRUE or FALSE . If TRUE , all instances started up in RESTRICTED mode using STARTUP RESTRICT are automatically unrestricted upon a successful START_CAPTURE . ( DEFAULT ) If FALSE , no database instance is automatically unrestricted. capture_sts If this parameter is TRUE , a SQL tuning set capture is also started in parallel with workload capture. The resulting SQL tuning set can be exported using the EXPORT_AWR Procedure along with the AWR data. Currently, parallel STS capture is not supported in an Oracle RAC environment, so this parameter has no effect if used in that context. Capture filters defined using the DBMS_WORKLOAD_REPLAY interface do not apply to the SQL tuning set capture. The calling user must have the appropriate privileges (' ADMINISTER SQL TUNING SET '). If starting SQL set capture fails, workload capture is stopped. The reason is stored in DBA_WORKLOAD_CAPTURES . ERROR_MESSAGE . The default value is FALSE . sts_cap_interval Specifies the capture interval of the SQL set capture from the cursor cache in seconds. The default value is 300. plsql_mode Specifies the PL/SQL capture mode: TOP_LEVEL — only top-level PL/SQL calls are captured EXTENDED — both top-level PL/SQL calls and SQL called from PL/SQL are captured encryption Specify if sensitive data in workload capture is encrypted or not. The possible values are: NULL — capture files are not encrypted AES128 — capture files are encrypted using AES128 AES192 — capture files are encrypted using AES192 AES256 — capture files is encrypted using AES256 The default value is NULL . Usage Notes All user requests sent to database after a successful invocation of START_CAPTURE are recorded in the given dir directory for the given duration provided that one was specified. If no duration was specified, the capture lasts indefinitely until the FINISH_CAPTURE Procedure is executed. A workload capture once started continues to record user requests across database instance shutdowns and startups for the specified duration, or until FINISH_CAPTURE is executed, whichever occurs first. One can use workload filters (as described with regard to the ADD_FILTER Procedures ) to capture only a subset of the user requests sent to the database. By default, when no workload filters are defined, all user requests are captured. Workload that is initiated from Oracle Database background processes (such as SMON , PMON , MMON ) and Oracle Database Scheduler Jobs (as detailed in the DBMS_SCHEDULER package) is not captured, no matter how the workload filters are defined. These activities should happen automatically on an appropriately configured replay system. By default, all database instances that were started up in RESTRICTED mode using STARTUP RESTRICT are UNRESTRICTED upon a successful invocation of START_CAPTURE Use FALSE for the auto_unrestrict input parameter, if you do not want this behavior. It is important to have a well-defined starting point for the workload so that the replay system can be restored to that point before initiating a replay of the captured workload. To have a well-defined starting point for the workload capture, it is preferable not to have any active user sessions when START_CAPTURE is executed. If ongoing sessions have ongoing transactions, those transactions are not replayed properly in subsequent database replays, since only that part of the transaction whose calls were executed after START_CAPTURE are replayed. For encrypted capture, the START_CAPTURE Procedure relies on a software keystore. The identifier is oracle.rat.database_replay.encryption (case-sensitive). You must configure a software keystore in auto-login mode. Otherwise, if the database is bounced during capture, the capture is automatically terminated.