---
id: 19c__DBMS_STATS.DELETE_DATABASE_PREFS
name: DBMS_STATS.DELETE_DATABASE_PREFS
object_type: plsql_procedure
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_STATS
tags: [dbms_stats]
source_file: DBMS_STATS.html
---

# DBMS_STATS.DELETE_DATABASE_PREFS

This procedure deletes the statistics preferences set for all non-system tables. You can include system tables by passing TRUE for the add_sys parameter.

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_STATS.DELETE_DATABASE_PREFS (
    pname            IN   VARCHAR2,
    add_sys          IN   BOOLEAN DEFAULT FALSE);
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Mode | Description |
|-----------|------|------|-------------|
| pname | VARCHAR2 | IN | Preference name. The existing value for following preferences can be deleted and default preference values will be used: APPROXIMATE_NDV_ALGORITHM AUTO_STAT_EXTENSIONS CASCADE DEGREE ESTIMATE_PERCENT GLOBAL_TEMP_TABLE_STATS GRANULARITY INCREMENTAL INCREMENTAL_LEVEL INCREMENTAL_STALENESS METHOD_OPT NO_INVALIDATE OPTIONS PREFERENCE_OVERRIDES_PARAMETER PUBLISH STALE_PERCENT STAT_CATEGORY TABLE_CACHED_BLOCKS |
| add_sys | BOOLEAN | IN | Determines whether SYS tables will be included. |

## Usage Notes

Syntax DBMS_STATS.DELETE_DATABASE_PREFS ( pname IN VARCHAR2, add_sys IN BOOLEAN DEFAULT FALSE); Parameters Table 171-18 DELETE_DATABASE_PREFS Procedure Parameters Parameter Description pname Preference name. The existing value for following preferences can be deleted and default preference values will be used: APPROXIMATE_NDV_ALGORITHM AUTO_STAT_EXTENSIONS CASCADE DEGREE ESTIMATE_PERCENT GLOBAL_TEMP_TABLE_STATS GRANULARITY INCREMENTAL INCREMENTAL_LEVEL INCREMENTAL_STALENESS METHOD_OPT NO_INVALIDATE OPTIONS PREFERENCE_OVERRIDES_PARAMETER PUBLISH STALE_PERCENT STAT_CATEGORY TABLE_CACHED_BLOCKS add_sys Determines whether SYS tables will be included. Table 171-19 Statistics Preferences Preference Description APPROXIMATE_NDV_ALGORITHM Specifies the synopsis generation algorithm. A synopsis is special type of statistic that tracks the number of distinct values (NDV) for each column in a partition. Consider a synopsis as an internal management structure that samples distinct values. You can specify the following preferences: REPEAT OR HYPERLOGLOG This is the default. If INCREMENTAL is enabled on the table, then the database preserves the format of any existing synopses that use the adaptive sampling algorithm. However, the database creates any new synopses in HyperLogLog format. This approach is attractive when existing performance is acceptable, and you do not want to incur the performance cost of reformatting legacy content. ADAPTIVE SAMPLING The database uses the adaptive sampling algorithm for all synopses. This is the most conservative option. HYPERLOGLOG The database uses the HyperLogLog algorithm for all new and stale synopses. In contrast to adaptive sampling, the HyperLogLog algorithm uses a randomization technique. The advantages of HyperLogLog over adaptive sampling are: The accuracy of the new algorithm is similar to the original algorithm. The memory required is significantly lower, which typically leads to huge reductions in synopsis size. AUTO_STAT_EXTENSIONS Controls the automatic creation of extensions when database statistics are gathered. You can set the following values: ON — When applicable, a SQL plan directive can trigger the creation of column group statistics based on usage of columns in the predicates in the workload. OFF — The database does not create column group statistics automatically. The database creates them only when the CREATE_EXTENDED_STATS function is executed, or when extended statistics are specified explicitly in the METHOD_OPT clause of DBMS_STATS . This is the default. CASCADE Determines whether index statistics are collected as part of gathering table statistics. DEGREE Determines degree of parallelism used for gathering statistics. ESTIMATE_PERCENT Determines the percentage of rows to estimate. GLOBAL_TEMP_TABLE_STATS Controls whether the statistics gathered for a global temporary table should be stored as shared statistics or session statistics. GRANULARITY Determines the granularity of statistics to collect. This value is only relevant for partitioned tables. INCREMENTAL Determines whether the global statistics of a partitioned table will be maintained without doing a full table scan. INCREMENTAL_LEVEL Controls which synopses to collect when INCREMENTAL preference is set to TRUE . INCREMENTAL_STALENESS Specifies when a partition or subpartition is considered stale. This parameter takes an enumeration of values, such as 'USE_STALE_PERCENT' and 'USE_LOCKED_STATS' . You can also specify multiple values, such as 'USE_STALE_PERCENT,USE_LOCKED_STATS,ALLOW_MIXED_FORMAT' . The parameter accepts the following values: USE_STALE_PERCENT —A partition or subpartition is not considered stale when DML changes are below the threshold set by the STALE_PERCENT preference. For example, assume that STALE_PERCENT is 10 . You specify USE_STALE_PERCEMENT for INCREMENTAL_STALENESS . The partition has 5% DML changes. The database does not regather statistics. Assume a different case in which STALE_PERCENT is 10 . You specify USE_STALE_PERCEMENT for INCREMENTAL_STALENESS . However, in this case the partition is locked and has 20% of DML changes. Because the partition is locked, the database does not regather statistics. USE_LOCKED_STATS —Locked partitions or subpartitions statistics are never considered stale, regardless of DML changes. For example, assume that STALE_PERCENT is 10 . You specify 'USE_LOCKED_STATS, USE_STALE_PERCENT' . The partition, which is locked, has 20% DML changes. The partition is not considered stale. The database uses existing statistics to derive global statistics. ALLOW_MIXED_FORMAT —Adaptive sampling synopses and HyperLogLog synopses are permitted to coexist. NULL —A partition or subpartition is considered stale when it has any DML changes. For example, assume that STALE_PERCENT is 10 . You specify the value 'NULL' for INCREMENTAL_STALENESS . The partition has 5% of DML changes. The database regathers statistics. Note that the following two executions are different: EXEC DBMS_STATS.SET_TABLE_PREFS ('sh', 'sales', 'INCREMENTAL_STALENESS', 'NULL'); EXEC DBMS_STATS.SET_TABLE_PREFS ('sh', 'sales', 'INCREMENTAL_STALENESS', null); The first execution uses single quotes to set the preference to the value NULL , whereas the second sets the preference to the default, which is ALLOW_MIXED_FORMAT . METHOD_OPT Controls column statistics collection and histogram creation. When setting preference on global, schema, database or dictionary level, only 'FOR ALL' syntax is allowed. NO_INVALIDATE Controls the invalidation of dependent cursors when statistics are gathered. The parameter takes the following values: TRUE : Dependent cursors are not invalidated. FALSE : Dependent cursors are marked for immediate invalidation. AUTO : This is the default value. Rolling invalidation is used to invalidate all dependent cursors over a period of time. The performance impact on the database is reduced especially in cases where a large number of cursors are invalidated. The default can be changed using the SET_DATABASE_PREFS Procedure , SET_GLOBAL_PREFS Procedure , SET_SCHEMA_PREFS Procedure and SET_TABLE_PREFS Procedure . OPTIONS Determines the options parameter used in the GATHER_TABLE_STATS Procedure . PREFERENCE_OVERRIDES_PARAMETER Determines whether to override the input value of a parameter with the preference value of that parameter for a statistics operation. Possible values are: TRUE — Ignores input parameter values, and uses the value of the corresponding preference. FALSE — Obeys input parameter values. Specifying this preference does not change the order of precedence of table, global, and default. PUBLISH Determines whether the database publishes newly gathered statistics after the gathering job completes. You can gather statistics without publishing them immediately. This technique enables you to test new statistics before publishing them. STALE_PERCENT Determines the percentage of rows in a table that have to change before the statistics on that table are deemed stale and should be regathered. STAT_CATEGORY Specifies which statistics to import or export, accepting multiple values separated by a comma. Values supported: OBJECT_STATS — table statistics, column statistics and index statistics (default) SYNOPSES — information to support incremental statistics REALTIME_STATS — Specifies only real-time statistics. MODELS — supports import, export, and deletion for regression models in real-time stats. The value 'OBJECT_STATS, SYNOPSES, REALTIME_STATS, MODELS' specifies table statistics, column statistics, index statistics, and synopses. The default value is ' OBJECT_STATS, SYNOPSES, REALTIME_STATS, MODELS '. TABLE_CACHED_BLOCKS Specifies the average number of blocks assumed to be cached in the buffer cache when calculating the index clustering factor. The preference applies only when gathering statistics using DBMS_STATS . Index statistics gathered during CREATE INDEX or REBUILD INDEX operations will use the default value 1. Security Model To run this procedure, you must have the SYSDBA role or both ANALYZE ANY DICTIONARY and ANALYZE ANY system privileges. Exceptions ORA-20000 : Insufficient privileges ORA-20001 : Invalid or Illegal input values Usage Notes All pname arguments are of type VARCHAR2 and values are enclosed in quotes, even when they represent numbers.