---
id: 19c__DBMS_UTILITY.INVALIDATE
name: DBMS_UTILITY.INVALIDATE
object_type: plsql_procedure
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_UTILITY
tags: [dbms_utility]
source_file: DBMS_UTILITY.html
---

# DBMS_UTILITY.INVALIDATE

This procedure invalidates a database object and (optionally) modifies its PL/SQL compiler parameter settings. It also invalidates any objects that (directly or indirectly) depend on the object being invalidated.

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_UTILITY.INVALIDATE ( 
   p_object_id              NUMBER,
   p_plsql_object_settings  VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL,
   p_option_flags           PLS_INTEGER DEFAULT 0);
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Mode | Description |
|-----------|------|------|-------------|
| p_object_id | NUMBER | IN | ID number of object to be invalidated. This is the same as the value of the OBJECT_ID column from ALL_OBJECTS . If the object_id argument is NULL or invalid then the exception inv_not_exist_or_no_priv is raised. The caller of this procedure must have create privileges on the object being invalidated else the inv_not_exist_or_no_priv exception is raised. |
| p_plsql_object_settings | VARCHAR2 | IN | Optional parameter that ignored if the object specified by p_object_id is not a PL/SQL object. If no value is specified for this parameter then the PL/SQL compiler settings are left unchanged, that is, equivalent to REUSE SETTINGS . If a value is provided, it must specify the values of the PL/SQL compiler settings separated by one or more spaces. Each setting can be specified only once else inv_malformed_settings exception will be raised. The setting values are changed only for the object specified by p_object_id and do not affect dependent objects that may be invalidated. The setting names and values are case insensitive. If a setting is omitted and REUSE SETTINGS is specified, then if a value was specified for the compiler setting in an earlier compilation of this library unit, Oracle Database uses that earlier value. If a setting is omitted and REUSE SETTINGS was not specified or no value has been specified for the parameter in an earlier compilation, then the database will obtain the value for that setting from the session environment. |
| p_option_flags | PLS_INTEGER | IN | Optional parameter defaults to zero (no flags). Option flags supported by invalidate. inv_error_on_restrictions (see Constants ): The subprogram imposes various restrictions on the objects that can be invalidated. For example, the object specified by p_object_id cannot be a table. By default, invalidate quietly returns on these conditions (and does not raise an exception). If the caller sets this flag, the exception inv_restricted_object is raised. |

## Usage Notes

Syntax DBMS_UTILITY.INVALIDATE ( p_object_id NUMBER, p_plsql_object_settings VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, p_option_flags PLS_INTEGER DEFAULT 0); Parameters Table 187-26 INVALIDATE Procedure Parameters Parameter Description p_object_id ID number of object to be invalidated. This is the same as the value of the OBJECT_ID column from ALL_OBJECTS . If the object_id argument is NULL or invalid then the exception inv_not_exist_or_no_priv is raised. The caller of this procedure must have create privileges on the object being invalidated else the inv_not_exist_or_no_priv exception is raised. p_plsql_object_settings Optional parameter that ignored if the object specified by p_object_id is not a PL/SQL object. If no value is specified for this parameter then the PL/SQL compiler settings are left unchanged, that is, equivalent to REUSE SETTINGS . If a value is provided, it must specify the values of the PL/SQL compiler settings separated by one or more spaces. Each setting can be specified only once else inv_malformed_settings exception will be raised. The setting values are changed only for the object specified by p_object_id and do not affect dependent objects that may be invalidated. The setting names and values are case insensitive. If a setting is omitted and REUSE SETTINGS is specified, then if a value was specified for the compiler setting in an earlier compilation of this library unit, Oracle Database uses that earlier value. If a setting is omitted and REUSE SETTINGS was not specified or no value has been specified for the parameter in an earlier compilation, then the database will obtain the value for that setting from the session environment. p_option_flags Optional parameter defaults to zero (no flags). Option flags supported by invalidate. inv_error_on_restrictions (see Constants ): The subprogram imposes various restrictions on the objects that can be invalidated. For example, the object specified by p_object_id cannot be a table. By default, invalidate quietly returns on these conditions (and does not raise an exception). If the caller sets this flag, the exception inv_restricted_object is raised. Exceptions Table 187-27 INVALIDATE Exceptions Exception Description INV_NOT_EXIST_OR_NO_PRIV Raised when the object_id argument is NULL or invalid, or when the caller does not have CREATE privileges on the object being invalidated INV_MALFORMED_SETTINGS Raised if a compiler setting is specified more than once in the p_plsql_object_settings parameter INV_RESTRICTED_OBJECT Raised when different combinations of conditions pertaining to the p_object_id parameter are contravened Usage Notes The object type ( object_type column from ALL_OBJECTS ) of the object specified by p_object_id must be a PROCEDURE , FUNCTION , PACKAGE , PACKAGE BODY , TRIGGER , TYPE , TYPE BODY , LIBRARY , VIEW , OPERATOR , SYNONYM , or JAVA CLASS . If the object is not one of these types and the flag inv_error_on_restrictions is specified in p_option_flags then the exception inv_restricted_object is raised, else no action is taken. If the object specified by p_object_id is the package specification of STANDARD , DBMS_STANDARD , or specification or body of DBMS_UTILITY and the flag inv_error_on_restrictions is specified in p_option_flags then the exception inv_restricted_object is raised, else no action is taken. If the object specified by p_object_id is an object type specification and there exist tables which depend on the type and the flag inv_error_on_restrictions is specified in p_option_flags then the exception inv_restricted_object is raised, else no action is taken. Examples Example 1 DBMS_UTILITY.INVALIDATE (1232, 'PLSQL_OPTIMIZE_LEVEL = 2 REUSE SETTINGS'); Assume that the object_id 1232 refers to the procedure remove_emp in the HR schema. Then the above call will mark the remove_emp procedure invalid and change it's PLSQL_OPTIMIZE_LEVEL compiler setting to 2. The values of other compiler settings will remain unchanged since REUSE SETTINGS is specified. Objects that depend on hr . remove_emp will also get marked invalid. Their compiler parameters will not be changed. Example 2 DBMS_UTILITY.INVALIDATE (40775, 'plsql_code_type = native'); Assume that the object_id 40775 refers to the type body leaf_category_typ in the OE schema. Then the above call will mark the type body invalid and change its PLSQL_CODE_TYPE compiler setting to NATIVE . The values of other compiler settings will be picked up from the current session environment since REUSE SETTINGS has not been specified. Since no objects can depend on bodies, there are no cascaded invalidations. Example 3 DBMS_UTILITY.INVALIDATE (40796); Assume that the object_id 40796 refers to the view oc_orders in the OE schema. Then the above call will mark the oc_orders view invalid. Objects that depend on oe . oc_orders will also get marked invalid.