---
id: 19c__DBMS_SCHEDULER.SET_ATTRIBUTE
name: DBMS_SCHEDULER.SET_ATTRIBUTE
object_type: plsql_procedure
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_SCHEDULER
tags: [dbms_scheduler]
source_file: DBMS_SCHEDULER.html
---

# DBMS_SCHEDULER.SET_ATTRIBUTE

This procedure modifies an attribute of a Scheduler object. It is overloaded to accept values of various types.

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_SCHEDULER.SET_ATTRIBUTE (
   name           IN VARCHAR2,
   attribute      IN VARCHAR2,
   value          IN {BOOLEAN|DATE|TIMESTAMP|
                        TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE|TIMESTAMP WITH LOCAL TIME ZONE|
                        INTERVAL DAY TO SECOND});

DBMS_SCHEDULER.SET_ATTRIBUTE (
   name           IN VARCHAR2,
   attribute      IN VARCHAR2,
   value          IN VARCHAR2,
   value2         IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL);
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Mode | Description |
|-----------|------|------|-------------|
| name | VARCHAR2 | IN | The name of the object. |
| attribute | VARCHAR2 | IN | See Table 151-83 through Table 151-93 . |
| value | IN | IN | The new value being set for the attribute. This cannot be NULL . To set an attribute value to NULL , use the SET_ATTRIBUTE_NULL procedure. |
| value2 | VARCHAR2 | IN | The value2 argument is for an optional second value. Most attributes have only one value associated with them, but some can have two. |

## Usage Notes

To set an attribute to NULL , use the SET_ATTRIBUTE_NULL procedure. The attributes that can be set depend on the object being altered. All object attributes can be changed, except the object name. Syntax DBMS_SCHEDULER.SET_ATTRIBUTE ( name IN VARCHAR2, attribute IN VARCHAR2, value IN {BOOLEAN|DATE|TIMESTAMP| TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE|TIMESTAMP WITH LOCAL TIME ZONE| INTERVAL DAY TO SECOND}); DBMS_SCHEDULER.SET_ATTRIBUTE ( name IN VARCHAR2, attribute IN VARCHAR2, value IN VARCHAR2, value2 IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL); Parameters Table 151-81 SET_ATTRIBUTE Procedure Parameters Parameter Description name The name of the object. attribute See Table 151-83 through Table 151-93 . value The new value being set for the attribute. This cannot be NULL . To set an attribute value to NULL , use the SET_ATTRIBUTE_NULL procedure. value2 The value2 argument is for an optional second value. Most attributes have only one value associated with them, but some can have two. Table 151-82 is a directory of Scheduler object types and tables of attributes for the object types. These object types can be viewed with Scheduler Data Dictionary Views, listed in Oracle Database Administrator's Guide . Table 151-82 Attribute Tables for Scheduler Object Types Scheduler Object Type Table of Attributes Job Table 151-83 Program Table 151-85 Schedule Table 151-86 File Watcher Table 151-87 Job Class Table 151-88 Window Table 151-89 Chain Table 151-90 Database Destination Table 151-91 External Destination Table 151-92 Group Table 151-93 Credential Table 151-94 Resource Table 151-95 Usage Notes If an object is altered and it was in the enabled state, the Scheduler first disables it, then makes the change and reenables it. If any errors are encountered during the enable process, the object is not reenabled and an error is generated. If an object is altered and it was in the disabled state, it remains disabled after it is altered. To run SET_ATTRIBUTE for a window, a group of type WINDOW , or job class, you must have the MANAGE SCHEDULER privilege. Otherwise, you must be the owner of the object being altered or have ALTER privileges on that object or have the CREATE ANY JOB privilege. Job If there is a running instance of the job when the SET_ATTRIBUTE call is made, it is not affected by the call. The change is only affects future runs of the job. If any of the schedule attributes of a job are altered while the job is running, the time of the next job run is scheduled using the new schedule attributes. Schedule attributes of a job include schedule_name , start_date , end_date , and repeat_interval . If any of the program attributes of a job are altered while the job is running, the new program attributes take effect the next time the job runs. Program attributes of a job include program_name , job_action , job_type , and number_of_arguments . If any job argument values are altered while the job is running, the new values take effect the next time the job runs. Granting the ALTER privilege on a job lets a user alter all attributes of that job except its program attributes ( program_name , job_type , job_action , program_action , and number_of_arguments ) and does not allow a user to use a PL/SQL expression to specify the schedule for a job. Oracle recommends that you not alter a job that was automatically created for you by the database. Jobs that were created by the database have the column SYSTEM set to TRUE in job views. Program If any currently running jobs use the program that was altered, they continue to run with the program definition prior to the alter. The job runs with the new program definition the next time the job executes. Schedule If a schedule is altered, the change does not affect running jobs and open windows that use this schedule. The change only goes into effect the next time the jobs runs or the window opens. File Watcher If a file watcher is altered, any currently running event-based jobs started by the file arrival event are not affected. On the local system, the new file watcher attributes take effect the next time that the file watcher checks for the arrival of the file (every ten minutes by default). On remote systems, there may be an additional delay before the new file watcher attributes take effect. Job Class With the exception of the default job class, all job classes can be altered. To alter a job class, you must have the MANAGE SCHEDULER privilege. When a job class is altered, running jobs that belong to the class are not affected. The change only takes effect for jobs that have not started running yet. Window When a window is altered, it does not affect an active window. The changes only take effect the next time the window opens. If there is no current resource plan, when a window with a designated resource plan opens, the Resource Manager activates with that plan. Job Attribute Values Table 151-83 lists attribute values for jobs. Note: See the CREATE_JOB procedure and the CREATE_JOBS procedure for more complete descriptions of the attributes in this table. Table 151-83 Job Attribute Values Name Description allow_runs_in_restricted_mode If TRUE , the job is permitted to run when the database is in restricted mode, provided that the job owner is permitted to log in during this mode. FALSE by default. auto_drop This attribute, if TRUE , causes a job to be automatically dropped after it completes or is automatically disabled. A job is considered completed if: Its end date (or the end date of the schedule) has passed. It has run max_runs number of times. max_runs must be set with SET_ATTRIBUTE . It is not a repeating job and has run once. A job is automatically disabled when it has failed max_failures times. max_failures is also set with SET_ATTRIBUTE . If this attribute is set to FALSE , the jobs are not dropped and their metadata is kept until the job is explicitly dropped with the DROP_JOB procedure. By default, jobs are created with auto_drop set to TRUE . comments An optional comment. connect_credential_name feature 25230 This attribute may be set to point to a database credential. For a SQL*Plus or backup script job, the credential connects to the database before running the script. For other job types, it is ignored. The job owner must have execute privileges on the credential, otherwise the job fails. Using a connect_credential_name is recommended since it allows the password to be stored securely in a credential in the database rather than in plain view in the job, program action, or script. credential_name This attribute specifies the name of the credential object (credential) to use for a remote database job, a remote external job, a local external job, or an event-based job that processes a file arrival event. For local external jobs only, if this attribute is NULL (the default), then a preferred (default) credential is selected. See Oracle Database Administrator's Guide for information about preferred credentials for local external jobs. database_role This attribute applies when the database participates in an Oracle Data Guard environment. If this attribute is set to ' PRIMARY ', the job runs only when the database is in the role of the primary database. If set to ' LOGICAL STANDBY ', the job runs only when the database is in the role of a logical standby. The default is ' PRIMARY ' when the database is the primary database, and ' LOGICAL STANDBY ' when the database is a logical standby. Note: If you want a job to run for all database roles on a particular host, you must create two copies of the job on that host: one with a database_role of ' PRIMARY ', and the other with a database_role of ' LOGICAL STANDBY '. destination *** Deprecated in Oracle Database 11 g Release 2. Use destination_name instead . This attribute specifies a host on which to run a remote external job. It must be set to the host name or IP address of the destination host. It can optionally be followed by a port number, in the following format: hostname : port This attribute is set to NULL by default. destination_name The database destination or external destination for the job. Use for remote database jobs and remote external jobs only. For jobs running on the local database or for local external jobs (executables), must be NULL . See Table 151-28 for details about this attribute. end_date Specifies the date and time after which the job expires and is no longer run. After the end_date , if is TRUE , the job is dropped. If auto_drop is FALSE , the job is disabled and the STATE of the job is set to COMPLETED . If no value for end_date is specified, the job repeats forever unless max_runs or max_failures is set, in which case the job stops when either value is reached. The value for end_date must be after the value for start_date . If end_date is less than start_date , then an error will be generated. If end_date is the same as start_date , then the job will not execute and no error will be generated. event_spec This attribute takes two values: the value argument specifies the event condition and the value2 argument specifies the queue specification. For more details, see the descriptions for the event_condition and queue_spec arguments in the " CREATE_JOB Procedure " . follow_default_timezone If TRUE and if the job start_date is null, then when the default_timezone scheduler attribute is changed, the Scheduler recomputes the next run date and time for this job so that it is in accordance with the new time zone. For example, if the job was set to run at 02:00 in the previous time zone, it will run at 02:00 in the new time zone. If the job start_date is not null, then the time zone for the run date and time for the job is always specified by the time zone of the start_date . If FALSE , the next start date and time for the job is not recomputed when the default_timezone scheduler attribute is changed. In this case, if the old time zone is three hours earlier than the new time zone, then a job scheduled to run at 02:00 in the old time zone runs at 05:00 in the new time zone. Summer and winter transitions do not change the default time zone name. instance_id Valid only in an Oracle Real Application Clusters environment. Indicates the instance on which the job is to be run. instance_stickiness This attribute should only be used for a database running in an Oracle Real Application Clusters (Oracle RAC) environment. By default, it is set to TRUE . If you set instance_stickiness to TRUE , jobs start running on the instance with the lightest load and the Scheduler thereafter attempts to run on the instance that it last ran on. If that instance is either down or so overloaded that it does not start new jobs for a significant period of time, another instance runs the job. If the interval between runs is large, instance_stickiness is ignored and the job is handled as if it were a non-sticky job. If instance_stickiness is set to FALSE , each instance of the job runs on the first instance available. For environments other than Oracle RAC, this attribute is not useful because there is only one instance. job_action The action that the job performs, depending on the job_type attribute. For example, if job_type is ' STORED_PROCEDURE ', job_action contains the name of the stored procedure. job_class The class this job is associated with. job_priority This attribute specifies the priority of this job relative to other jobs in the same class as this job. If multiple jobs within a class are scheduled to be executed at the same time, the job priority determines the order in which jobs from that class are picked up for execution by the job coordinator. It can be a value from 1 through 5, with 1 being the first to be picked up for job execution. If no job priority is specified when creating a job, the default priority of 3 is assigned to it. job_type The type of this job.Valid values are: ' PLSQL_BLOCK ', ' STORED_PROCEDURE ', ' EXECUTABLE ', CHAIN ', ' EXTERNAL_SCRIPT ', ' SQL_SCRIPT ', and ' BACKUP_SCRIPT '. If this is set, program_name must be NULL . job_weight *** Deprecated in Oracle Database 11 g R2. Do not change the value of this attribute from the default, which is 1. Weight of the job for parallel execution. logging_level This attribute specifies how much information is logged. The possible options are: DBMS_SCHEDULER.LOGGING_OFF (The default) No logging is performed for this job. However, the logging level of the job class takes precedence and job logging may occur. DBMS_SCHEDULER.LOGGING_FAILED_RUNS The Scheduler logs only jobs that failed, with the reason for failure. If the job class has a higher logging level, then the higher logging level takes precedence. DBMS_SCHEDULER.LOGGING_RUNS The Scheduler writes detailed information to the job log for all runs of each job in this class. If the job class has a higher logging level, then the higher logging level takes precedence. DBMS_SCHEDULER.LOGGING_FULL In addition to recording every run of a job, the Scheduler records all operations performed on the job, including create, enable, disable, alter (with SET_ATTRIBUTE ), stop, and so on. max_failures This attribute specifies the number of times a job can fail on consecutive scheduled runs before it is automatically disabled. Once a job is disabled, it is no longer executed and its STATE is set to BROKEN in the *_SCHEDULER_JOB views. max_failures can be an integer between 1 to 1,000,000. By default, it is set to NULL , which indicates that new instances of the job are started regardless of how many previous instances have failed. max_run_duration This attribute specifies the maximum amount of time that the job should be allowed to run. Its datatype is INTERVAL DAY TO SECOND . If this attribute is set to a non-zero and non- NULL value, and job duration exceeds this value, the Scheduler raises an event of type JOB_OVER_MAX_DUR . It is then up to your event handler to decide whether or not to allow the job to continue. max_runs This attribute specifies the maximum number of consecutive scheduled runs of the job. Once max_runs is reached, the job is disabled and its state is changed to COMPLETED . max_runs can be an integer between 1 and 1,000,000. By default, it is set to NULL , which means that it repeats forever or until end_date or max_failures is reached. number_of_arguments The number of arguments if the program is inlined. If this is set, program_name should be NULL . parallel_instances This is a boolean attribute that can be set only for event-based jobs. If FALSE (the default), then if an event is raised and the event-based job that processes that event is already running, the new event is ignored. If TRUE , then an instance of the job is started for every instance of the event, and each job instance is a lightweight job so multiple instances of the same event-based job can run in parallel. Each lightweight job takes its attributes (such as action, maximum run duration, and so on) from the definition of the event-based job (its parent job ). After the lightweight job completes, it is dropped. There is no explicit limit to the number of lightweight jobs that can run simultaneously to process multiple instances of the event. However, limitations may be imposed by available system resources. The lightweight jobs are not visible in any of the *_SCHEDULER_JOBS views. However, they are visible in the *_SCHEDULER_RUNNING_JOBS views. The name of each lightweight job is the same as that of the parent job, and a subname is automatically generated to distinguish each lightweight job from its parent and from its siblings. program_name The name of a program object to use with this job. If this is set, job_action , job_type and number_of_arguments should be NULL . raise_events This attribute tells the Scheduler at what stages of the job execution to raise events. It is a bit vector in which zero or more of the following bits can be set. Each bit has a package constant corresponding to it. job_started CONSTANT PLS_INTEGER := 1 job_succeeded CONSTANT PLS_INTEGER := 2 job_failed CONSTANT PLS_INTEGER :=4 job_broken CONSTANT PLS_INTEGER :=8 job_completed CONSTANT PLS_INTEGER :=16 job_stopped CONSTANT PLS_INTEGER :=32 job_sch_lim_reached CONSTANT PLS_INTEGER :=64 job_disabled CONSTANT PLS_INTEGER :=128 job_chain_stalled CONSTANT PLS_INTEGER :=256 job_all_events CONSTANT PLS_INTEGER := 511 job_run_completed CONSTANT PLS_INTEGER := job_succeeded + job_failed + job_stopped Table 151-84 describes these event types in detail. repeat_interval Either a PL/SQL function returning the next date and time on which to run, or calendaring syntax expression. If this is set, schedule_name should be NULL . See " Calendaring Syntax " for more information. restartable This attribute specifies whether or not a job can be restarted in case of failure. By default, jobs are not restartable and this attribute is set to FALSE . Setting this to TRUE means that if a job fails while running, it is restarted from the beginning point of the job. In the case of a chain job, if this attribute is TRUE , the chain is restarted from the beginning after an application failure. If this attribute is FALSE , or if there has been a database failure, the chain is restarted at the last running step. The restart_on_recovery attribute of that step then determines if the step is restarted or marked as stopped. (If marked as stopped, the chain evaluates rules and continues.) Note that setting this attribute to TRUE might lead to data inconsistencies in some situations, for example, if data is committed within a job. Retries on errors are not counted as regular runs. The run count or failure count is not incremented until the job succeeds or has failed all its six retries. The restartable attribute is used by the Scheduler to determine whether to retry the job not only on regular application errors, but after a database malfunction as well. The Scheduler retries the job a maximum of six times. The first time, it waits for one second and multiplies this wait time with a factor of 10 each time thereafter. Both the run count and failure count are incremented by 1 if the job has failed all its six retries. If the job immediately succeeds, or it succeeds on one of its retries, run count is incremented by 1. The Scheduler stops retrying a job when: One of the retries succeeds. All of its six retries have failed. The next retry would occur after the next regularly scheduled run of the job. The Scheduler no longer retries the job if the next scheduled retry is past the next regularly scheduled run for repeating jobs. schedule_limit In heavily loaded systems, jobs are not always started at their scheduled time. This attribute enables you to have the Scheduler not start a job at all if the delay in starting the job is larger than the interval specified. It can be a value of 1 minute to 99 days. For example, if a job was supposed to start at noon and the schedule limit is set to 60 minutes, the job will not be run if it has not started to run by 1:00 p.m. If schedule_limit is not specified, the job is executed at some later date as soon as there are resources available to run it. By default, this attribute is set to null, which indicates that the job can be run at any time after its scheduled time. A scheduled job run that is skipped because of this attribute does not count against the number of runs and failures of the job. An entry in the job log reflects the skipped run. schedule_name The name of a schedule, window, or group of type WINDOW to use as the schedule for this job. If this is set, end_date , start_date and repeat_interval should all be NULL . start_date The original date and time on which this job started or is scheduled to start. If this is set, schedule_name should be NULL . stop_on_window_close This attribute only applies if the schedule of a job is a window or a window group. Setting this attribute to TRUE implies that the job should stop once the associated window is closed. The job is stopped using the stop_job procedure with force set to FALSE . By default, stop_on_window_close is set to FALSE . Therefore, if you do not set this attribute, the job continues after the window closes. Note that, although the job is allowed to continue, its resource allocation will probably change because closing a window generally also implies a change in resource plans. store_output This is a boolean attribute. If set to TRUE , then for job runs that are logged, all job output and error messages are stored in the *_JOB_RUN_DETAILS views. If set to FALSE , then the output and messages are not stored. For new jobs, this is set, by default, to TRUE . The following event types are valid values for the raise_events attribute in Table 151-83 . Table 151-84 Event Types Raised by the Scheduler Event Type Description job_all_events Not an event, but a constant that provides an easy way for you to enable all events job_broken The job has been disabled and has changed to the BROKEN state because it exceeded the number of failures defined by the max_failures job attribute job_chain_stalled A job running a chain is in the CHAIN_STALLED state. A running chain becomes stalled if there are no steps running or scheduled to run and the chain evaluation_interval is set to NULL . No progress is made in the chain unless there is manual intervention. job_completed The job completed because it reached its max_runs or end_date job_disabled The job was disabled by the Scheduler or by a call to SET_ATTRIBUTE job_failed The job failed, either due to an error or an abnormal termination. job_over_max_dur The job exceeded the maximum run duration specified by its max_run_duration attribute. (Note: you do not need to enable this event with the raise_events job attribute; it is always enabled.) job_run_completed A job run either failed, succeeded, or was stopped job_sch_lim_reached The schedule limit of the job was reached. The job was not started because the delay in starting the job exceeded the value of the schedule_limit job attribute. job_started The job started job_stopped The job was stopped by a call to STOP_JOB job_succeeded The job completed successfully Program Attribute Values Table 151-85 lists program attribute values. Note: See the " CREATE_PROGRAM Procedure " for more complete descriptions of the attributes in this table. Table 151-85 Program Attribute Values Name Description comments An optional comment. This can describe what the program does or give usage details. detached If TRUE , the program is a detached program. See Oracle Database Administrator's Guide for information about detached jobs and detached programs. number_of_arguments The number of arguments required by the stored procedure or other executable that the program invokes program_action The action that the program performs, indicated by the program_type attribute. For example, if program_type is ' STORED_PROCEDURE ', program_action contains the name of the stored procedure. program_type The type of program. This must be one of these supported program types: ' PLSQL_BLOCK ', ' STORED_PROCEDURE ', and ' EXECUTABLE '. Schedule Attribute Values Table 151-86 lists schedule attribute values. Note: See " CREATE_SCHEDULE Procedure " for more complete descriptions of the attributes in this table. Table 151-86 Schedule Attribute Values Name Description comments An optional comment. end_date The cutoff date and time after which the schedule does not specify any dates. event_spec This attribute takes two values: the value argument should contain the event condition and the value2 argument should contain the queue specification. For more details, see the descriptions for the event_condition and queue_spec arguments to the " CREATE_JOB Procedure " . repeat_interval An attribute specifying how often the schedule should repeat, using the calendaring syntax. See " Calendaring Syntax " for more information. start_date The start or reference date and time used by the calendaring syntax. File Watcher Attribute Values Table 151-87 lists file watcher attribute values. Table 151-87 File Watcher Attribute Values Parameter Description destination Remote host name or IP address where the file is expected to arrive. If NULL , destination is the local host. directory_path Directory in which the file is expected to arrive. The single wildcard '?' at the beginning of the path denotes the Oracle home path. For example, '?/rdbms/log' denotes the rdbms/log subdirectory of the Oracle home directory. file_name Name of the file being looked for. Two wildcards are permitted anywhere in the file name: '?' denotes any single character, and '*' denotes zero or more characters. This attribute cannot be NULL . credential_name Name of a valid credential object. The file watcher uses the credential to authenticate itself with the host operating system to access the watched-for file. The file watcher owner must have the EXECUTE privilege on the credential. Cannot be NULL . min_file_size Minimum file size in bytes before the file watcher considers the file found. Default is 0. steady_state_duration Minimum time interval that the file must remain unchanged before the file watcher considers the file found. If NULL , an internal value is used. The lower limit for this attribute is 10 seconds. comments Optional comment. Job Class Attribute Values Table 151-88 lists job class attribute values. Note: See the " CREATE_JOB_CLASS Procedure " for more complete descriptions of the attributes in this table. Table 151-88 Job Class Attribute Values Name Description comments An optional comment about the class. log_history This attribute controls the number of days that job log entries for jobs in this class are retained. It helps prevent the job log from growing indiscriminately. The range of valid values is 0 through 1000000. If set to 0, no history is kept. If NULL , retention days are set by the log_history Scheduler attribute (set with SET_SCHEDULER_ATTRIBUTE ). logging_level This attribute specifies how much information is logged. The valid values are: DBMS_SCHEDULER.LOGGING_OFF No logging is performed for any jobs in this class. DBMS_SCHEDULER.LOGGING_FAILED_RUNS The Scheduler logs only jobs in the class that failed, with the reason for failure. DBMS_SCHEDULER.LOGGING_RUNS The Scheduler writes detailed information to the job log for all runs of each job in this class. This is the default. DBMS_SCHEDULER.LOGGING_FULL The Scheduler records all operations performed on all jobs in this class, in addition to recording every run of a job. Every time a job is created, enabled, disabled, altered (with SET_ATTRIBUTE ), stopped, and so on, an entry is recorded in the log. resource_consumer_group The resource consumer group that a class is associated with. All jobs in the class run under this resource consumer group. See Oracle Database Administrator's Guide for a description of resource consumer groups and the Database Resource Manager. service The database service that the jobs in the job class have affinity to. If both the resource_consumer_group and service attributes are set for a job class, and if the service is mapped to a resource consumer group, the resource_consumer_group attribute takes precedence. Window Attribute Values Table 151-89 lists window attribute values. Note: See the " CREATE_WINDOW Procedure " for more complete descriptions of the attributes in this table. Table 151-89 Window Attribute Values Name Description comments An optional comment about the window. duration The duration of the window. end_date The date after which the window no longer opens. If this is set, schedule_name must be NULL . repeat_interval An attribute specifying how often the schedule should repeat, using the calendaring syntax. PL/SQL date functions are not allowed. If this is set, schedule_name must be NULL . See " Calendaring Syntax " for more information. resource_plan The resource plan to be associated with a window. When the window opens, the system switches to this resource plan. When the window closes, the original resource plan is restored. If a resource plan has been made active with the force option, no resource plan switch occurs. Only one resource plan can be associated with a window. It may be NULL or the empty string (""). When it is NULL , the resource plan that is in effect when the window opens stays in effect for the duration of the window. When it is the empty string, the resource manager is disabled for the duration of the window. schedule_name The name of a schedule to use with this window. If this is set, start_date , end_date , and repeat_interval must all be NULL . start_date The next date and time on which this window is scheduled to open. If this is set, schedule_name must be NULL . window_priority The priority of the window. Must be either ' LOW ' (default) or ' HIGH '. Chain Attribute Values Table 151-90 lists chain attribute values. Note: See the " CREATE_CHAIN Procedure " for more complete descriptions of the attributes in this table. Table 151-90 Chain Attribute Values Name Description comments An optional comment describing the purpose of the chain. evaluation_interval If not NULL , provides an additional evaluation of the chain at this interval, as well as at normal evaluation times (when the job starts, when a step completes, or when an event that is associated with an event step arrives) This attribute should only to be used when chain rules use SQL syntax and the rule conditions contain elements that are not under the control of the Scheduler, because the extra interval is CPU intensive. For most chains, the normal evaluation times are sufficient. rule_set_name In the normal case, no rule set should be passed in. The Scheduler automatically creates a rule set and associated empty evaluation context. You then use DEFINE_CHAIN_RULE to add rules and DROP_CHAIN_RULE to remove them. Advanced users can create a rule set that describes their chain dependencies and pass it in here. This allows greater flexibility in defining rules. For example, conditions can refer to external variables, and tables can be exposed through the evaluation context. If you pass in a rule set, you must ensure that it is in the format of a chain rule set. (For example, all steps must be listed as variables in the evaluation context). If no rule set is passed in, the rule set created is of the form SCHED_RULESET${N} and the evaluation context created is of the form SCHED_EVCTX${N} Database Destination Attribute Values Table 151-91 lists database destination attribute values. Note: See the " CREATE_DATABASE_DESTINATION Procedure " for more complete descriptions of the attributes in this table. Table 151-91 Database Destination Attribute Values Name Description agent The name of the external destination (also known as agent destination) that is used to connect to the remote database. You can obtain valid external destination names from the view ALL_SCHEDULER_EXTERNAL_DESTS . connect_info The TNS connect descriptor that identifies the remote database to connect to, or the net service name (alias) in tnsnames.ora that resolves to the connect descriptor. Note: This corresponds to the tns_name argument of CREATE_DATABASE_DESTINATION . enabled If TRUE , the database destination is enabled. comments An optional comment about the database destination. External Destination Attribute Values Table 151-92 lists external destination attribute values. Note: External destinations are created only implicitly by registering a remote Scheduler agent with the local database. Table 151-92 External Destination Attribute Values Name Description hostname ( GET_ATTRIBUTE only) The fully qualified host name (including domain) or IP address of the computer on which the Scheduler agent resides. port ( GET_ATTRIBUTE only) The TCP port number on which the agent listens. ip_address ( GET_ATTRIBUTE only) The IP address of the host on which the agent resides. enabled If TRUE , the external destination is enabled. comments An optional comment about the external destination. Group Attribute Values Table 151-93 lists group attribute values. Note: See the " CREATE_GROUP Procedure " for more complete descriptions of the attributes in this table. Table 151-93 Group Attribute Values Name Description group_type ( GET_ATTRIBUTE only) The group type (either WINDOW , DB_DEST , or EXTERNAL_DEST ). member_name Comma-separated list of members. Replaces the existing list of members. To add one or more members to the existing list, use ADD_GROUP_MEMBER . Note: this attribute corresponds to the member argument of CREATE_GROUP . enabled If TRUE , the group is enabled. comments An optional comment about the group. number_of_members ( GET_ATTRIBUTE only) The number of members in the group. Credential Attribute Values Table 151-94 lists credential attribute values. Note: Credential attribute values for the SET_ATTRIBUTE and GET_ATTRIBUTE procedures are deprecated with Oracle Database Release 12 c Release 1 (12.1). While these attribute values remain available in this package, for reasons of backward compatibility, Oracle recommends using the alternative enhanced functionality provided in the DBMS_CREDENTIAL package, specifically the attribute parameter in the UPDATE_CREDENTIAL Procedure . Table 151-94 Credential Attribute Values Name Description username The user name for logging into to the host operating system or remote Oracle database. Maximum length is 64. password The password for the user name. Maximum length is 128. comments A description of the credential. Maximum length is 240. windows_domain For a Windows remote executable target, this is the domain that the specified user belongs to. Maximum length is 64. database_role The value of the database_role attribute is used as the system privilege for logging into a remote database to run a remote database job. Valid values are: SYSDBA and SYSOPER . Resource Attribute Values Table 151-95 lists resource attribute values. Table 151-95 Resource Attribute Values Name Description resource_name The name of the resource units The number of units of this resource that the job or program uses. status The status of the resource. ENFORCE_CONSTRAINTS . This is the default value, and when set, will force the scheduler to enforce resource limits. When the maximum number of units of this resource has been reached, no additional jobs using this resource will get started. IGNORE_CONSTRAINTS . When set, the scheduler will ignore any constraints on this resource. BLOCKED_ALL_JOBS . No jobs having a constraint on this resource will be allowed to run. The resource is considered to be permanently blocking until switched to one of the other two states. constraint_level Level of the constraint: JOB_LEVEL or PROGRAM_LEVEL For incompatibilities, for JOB_LEVEL , the incompatibility members must be jobs; for PROGRAM_LEVEL the incompatibility members must be programs. comments Descriptive comment about the resource. Note: See the CREATE_JOB procedure and the CREATE_JOBS procedure for more complete descriptions of the attributes in this table.