---
id: 19c__DBMS_MGWADM.CREATE_JOB
name: DBMS_MGWADM.CREATE_JOB
object_type: plsql_procedure
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_MGWADM
tags: [dbms_mgwadm]
source_file: DBMS_MGWADM.html
---

# DBMS_MGWADM.CREATE_JOB

This procedure creates a job used to propagate message from a source to a destination.

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_MGWADM.CREATE_JOB (
   job_name           IN   VARCHAR2,
   propagation_type   IN   PLS_INTEGER,
   source             IN   VARCHAR2,
   destination        IN   VARCHAR2,
   rule               IN   VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL,
   transformation     IN   VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL,
   exception_queue    IN   VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL,
   poll_interval      IN   PLS_INTEGER DEFAULT NULL,
   options            IN   SYS.MGW_PROPERTIES DEFAULT NULL,
   enabled            IN   BOOLEAN DEFAULT TRUE,
   comments           IN   VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL);
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Mode | Description |
|-----------|------|------|-------------|
| job_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | A user defined name to identify the propagation job |
| propagation_type | PLS_INTEGER | IN | Specifies the type of message propagation. DBMS_MGWADM . OUTBOUND_PROPAGATION for Oracle Streams AQ to non-Oracle propagation. DBMS_MGWADM . INBOUND_PROPAGATION for non-Oracle to Oracle Streams AQ propagation. |
| source | VARCHAR2 | IN | Specifies the source queue whose messages are to be propagated. The syntax and interpretation of this parameter depend on the value specified for propagation_type . |
| destination | VARCHAR2 | IN | Specifies the destination queue to which messages are propagated. The syntax and interpretation of this parameter depend on the value specified for propagation_type . |
| rule | VARCHAR2 | IN | Specifies an optional subscription rule used to dequeue messages from the source queue. This should be NULL if no rule is needed. The syntax and interpretation of this parameter depend on the value specified for propagation_type . |
| transformation | VARCHAR2 | IN | Specifies the transformation needed to convert between the Oracle Streams AQ payload and an ADT defined by Messaging Gateway. The type of transformation needed depends on the value specified for propagation_type . If no transformation is specified the Oracle Streams AQ payload type must be supported by Messaging Gateway. |
| exception_queue | VARCHAR2 | IN | Specifies a queue used for exception message logging purposes. This queue must be on the same messaging system as the propagation source. If NULL , an exception queue will not be used and propagation will stop if a problem occurs. The syntax and interpretation of this parameter depend on the value specified for propagation_type . The source queue and exception queue cannot be the same queue. |
| poll_interval | PLS_INTEGER | IN | Specifies the polling interval, in seconds, used by the Messaging Gateway agent when checking for messages in the source queue. If no messages are available the agent will not poll again until the polling interval has passed. Once the agent detects a message it will continue propagating messages as long as any are available. Values: NULL or value > 0. If NULL , then the Messaging Gateway default polling interval will be used. The default polling interval is 5 seconds and can be overridden by the Messaging Gateway initialization file. |
| options | SYS.MGW_PROPERTIES | IN | Optional job properties, NULL if there are none. Typically these are lesser used configuration properties supported by the messaging system. |
| enabled | BOOLEAN | IN | Specifies whether this propagation job is enabled after creation. Values: TRUE , FALSE . If TRUE (default), the job will be enabled after it is created. If FALSE , the job will be disabled after it is created. A propagation job must be enabled and the Messaging Gateway agent running before messages can be propagated. |
| comments | VARCHAR2 | IN | An optional comment for this job. NULL if one is not desired. |

## Usage Notes

Syntax DBMS_MGWADM.CREATE_JOB ( job_name IN VARCHAR2, propagation_type IN PLS_INTEGER, source IN VARCHAR2, destination IN VARCHAR2, rule IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, transformation IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, exception_queue IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, poll_interval IN PLS_INTEGER DEFAULT NULL, options IN SYS.MGW_PROPERTIES DEFAULT NULL, enabled IN BOOLEAN DEFAULT TRUE, comments IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL); Parameters Table 110-29 CREATE_JOB Procedure Parameters Parameter Description job_name A user defined name to identify the propagation job propagation_type Specifies the type of message propagation. DBMS_MGWADM . OUTBOUND_PROPAGATION for Oracle Streams AQ to non-Oracle propagation. DBMS_MGWADM . INBOUND_PROPAGATION for non-Oracle to Oracle Streams AQ propagation. source Specifies the source queue whose messages are to be propagated. The syntax and interpretation of this parameter depend on the value specified for propagation_type . destination Specifies the destination queue to which messages are propagated. The syntax and interpretation of this parameter depend on the value specified for propagation_type . rule Specifies an optional subscription rule used to dequeue messages from the source queue. This should be NULL if no rule is needed. The syntax and interpretation of this parameter depend on the value specified for propagation_type . transformation Specifies the transformation needed to convert between the Oracle Streams AQ payload and an ADT defined by Messaging Gateway. The type of transformation needed depends on the value specified for propagation_type . If no transformation is specified the Oracle Streams AQ payload type must be supported by Messaging Gateway. exception_queue Specifies a queue used for exception message logging purposes. This queue must be on the same messaging system as the propagation source. If NULL , an exception queue will not be used and propagation will stop if a problem occurs. The syntax and interpretation of this parameter depend on the value specified for propagation_type . The source queue and exception queue cannot be the same queue. poll_interval Specifies the polling interval, in seconds, used by the Messaging Gateway agent when checking for messages in the source queue. If no messages are available the agent will not poll again until the polling interval has passed. Once the agent detects a message it will continue propagating messages as long as any are available. Values: NULL or value > 0. If NULL , then the Messaging Gateway default polling interval will be used. The default polling interval is 5 seconds and can be overridden by the Messaging Gateway initialization file. options Optional job properties, NULL if there are none. Typically these are lesser used configuration properties supported by the messaging system. enabled Specifies whether this propagation job is enabled after creation. Values: TRUE , FALSE . If TRUE (default), the job will be enabled after it is created. If FALSE , the job will be disabled after it is created. A propagation job must be enabled and the Messaging Gateway agent running before messages can be propagated. comments An optional comment for this job. NULL if one is not desired. Usage Notes The job must be enabled and Messaging Gateway agent started in order for messages to be propagated. If the non-Oracle messaging link being accessed for the propagation job uses a JMS interface, then the Messaging Gateway agent will use the Oracle JMS interface to access the Oracle Streams AQ queues. Otherwise the native Oracle Streams AQ interface will be used. Parameters are interpreted differently when the Messaging Gateway agent uses Oracle JMS for JMS connections. Transformations are not currently supported if the Oracle JMS interface is used for propagation. The transformation parameter must be NULL . OUTBOUND_PROPAGATION Jobs The parameters for an outbound propagation job are interpreted as follows: source specifies the local Oracle Streams AQ queue that is the propagation source. This must have syntax of schema.queue. This can be either a multiple consumer queue or a single consumer queue. destination specifies the non-Oracle queue to which messages are propagated. This must have syntax of registered_queue @ message_link . rule specifies an optional Oracle Streams AQ subscriber rule if the native Oracle Stream AQ interface is used, or a JMS selector if the Oracle JMS interface is used. If NULL , then no rule or selector is used. This parameter must be NULL if the native Oracle Stream AQ interface is used and the propagation source is a single consumer queue. transformation specifies the transformation used to convert the Oracle Streams AQ payload to an ADT defined by Messaging Gateway. The full transformation name ( schema . name ) should be used if one is specified. Messaging Gateway propagation dequeues messages from the Oracle Streams AQ queue using the transformation to convert the Oracle Streams AQ payload to a known ADT defined by Messaging Gateway. The message is then enqueued in the non-Oracle messaging system based on the Messaging Gateway ADT. exception_queue specifies the name of a local Oracle Streams AQ queue to which messages are moved if an exception occurs. The syntax must be schema . queue . If the native Oracle Streams AQ interface is used and the source is a multiple consumer queue, then a subscriber will be added to the Oracle Streams AQ queue when this procedure is called, whether or not the Messaging Gateway agent is running. The local subscriber will be of the form sys . aq$_agent (' MGW_job_name ', NULL , NULL ). If the Oracle JMS interface is used, then the Messaging Gateway agent will create a JMS durable subscriber with the name of MGW_job_name . If the agent is not running when this procedure is called, then the durable subscriber will be created the next time the agent starts. The exception queue has the following conditions: The user is responsible for creating the Oracle Streams AQ queue to be used as the exception queue. The payload type of the source queue and exception queue must match. The exception queue must be created as a queue type of DBMS_AQADM . NORMAL_QUEUE . Enqueue restrictions prevent Messaging Gateway from using an Oracle Streams AQ queue of type DBMS_AQADM . EXCEPTION_QUEUE as a Messaging Gateway exception queue. INBOUND_PROPAGATION Jobs The parameters for an inbound propagation job are interpreted as follows: source specifies the non-Oracle queue that is the propagation source. The syntax must be registered_queue @ message_link . destination specifies the local Oracle Streams AQ queue to which messages are propagated. The syntax must be schema . queue . rule specifies an optional subscriber rule that is valid for the non-Oracle messaging system. This should be NULL if no rule is needed. transformation specifies the transformation used to convert an ADT defined by Messaging Gateway to the Oracle Streams AQ payload type. The full transformation name ( schema . name ) should be used if one is specified Messaging Gateway propagation dequeues messages from the non-Oracle messaging system and converts the message body to a known ADT defined by Messaging Gateway. The transformation is used to convert the Messaging Gateway ADT to an Oracle Streams AQ payload type when the message is enqueued to the Oracle Streams AQ queue. exception_queue specifies the name of a registered non-Oracle queue to which messages are moved if an exception occurs. The syntax must be registered_queue@message_link . Whether or not a subscriber is needed for the source queue depends on the requirements of the non-Oracle messaging system. If a durable subscriber is necessary, then the Messaging Gateway agent will create it. If the agent is not running when this procedure is called, then the subscriber will be created on the non-Oracle messaging system the next time the agent starts. The exception queue has the following conditions: The exception queue must be a registered non-Oracle queue. The source queue and exception queue must use the same messaging system link.