---
id: 19c__DBMS_DATAPUMP.GET_DUMPFILE_INFO
name: DBMS_DATAPUMP.GET_DUMPFILE_INFO
object_type: plsql_procedure
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_DATAPUMP
tags: [dbms_datapump]
source_file: DBMS_DATAPUMP.html
---

# DBMS_DATAPUMP.GET_DUMPFILE_INFO

This procedure retrieves information about a specified dump file.

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_DATAPUMP.GET_DUMPFILE_INFO(
   filename    IN VARCHAR2,
   directory   IN VARCHAR2,
   info_table  OUT ku$_dumpfile_info,
   filetype    OUT NUMBER);
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Mode | Description |
|-----------|------|------|-------------|
| filename | VARCHAR2 | IN | A simple filename with no directory path information |
| directory | VARCHAR2 | IN | A directory object that specifies where the file can be found |
| info_table | ku$_dumpfile_info | OUT | A PL/SQL table for storing information about the dump file |
| filetype | NUMBER) | OUT | The type of file (Data Pump dump file, original Export dump file, external tables dump file, or unknown) |

## Usage Notes

Syntax DBMS_DATAPUMP.GET_DUMPFILE_INFO( filename IN VARCHAR2, directory IN VARCHAR2, info_table OUT ku$_dumpfile_info, filetype OUT NUMBER); Parameters Table 49-10 GET_DUMPFILE_INFO Procedure Parameters Parameter Description filename A simple filename with no directory path information directory A directory object that specifies where the file can be found info_table A PL/SQL table for storing information about the dump file filetype The type of file (Data Pump dump file, original Export dump file, external tables dump file, or unknown) Exceptions The GET_DUMPFILE_INFO procedure is a utility routine that operates outside the context of any Data Pump job. Exceptions are handled differently for this procedure than for procedures associated in some way with a Data Pump job. A full exception stack should be available directly, without the need to call the GET_STATUS procedure to retrieve the detailed information. The exception for this procedure is as follows: NO_DUMPFILE_INFO . Unable to retrieve dump file information as specified. Usage Notes You can use the GET_DUMPFILE_INFO procedure to request information about a specific file. If the file is not recognized as any type of dump file, then a filetype of 0 (zero) is returned and the dump file info_table remains empty. A filetype value of 1 indicates a Data Pump dump file. A filetype value of 2 indicates an original Export dump file. A filetype value of 3 indicates an external tables dump file. In all cases, the dump file info_table will be populated with information retrieved from the dump file header. Rows of this table consist of item code and value pairs, where the item code indicates the type of information and the value column is a VARCHAR2 containing the actual data (converted to a string in some cases). The table is defined as follows: CREATE TYPE sys.ku$_dumpfile_item IS OBJECT ( item_code NUMBER, -- Identifies header item value VARCHAR2(2048) -- Text string value)/ GRANT EXECUTE ON sys.ku$_dumpfile_item TO PUBLIC; CREATE OR REPLACE PUBLIC SYNONYM ku$_dumpfile_item FOR sys.ku$_dumpfile_item; CREATE TYPE sys.ku$_dumpfile_info AS TABLE OF sys.ku$_dumpfile_item/ GRANT EXECUTE ON sys.ku$_dumpfile_info TO PUBLIC; CREATE OR REPLACE PUBLIC SYNONYM ku$_dumpfile_info FOR sys.ku$_dumpfile_info; The item codes, which can easily be extended to provide more information as needed, are currently defined as shown in Table 49-11 (prepended with the package name, DBMS_DATAPUMP .). Assume the following with regard to these item codes: Unless otherwise stated, all item codes may be returned only for Oracle Data Pump and external tables dump files (filetypes 1 and 3). Unless otherwise stated, all item codes have been available since Oracle Database 10 g Release 2 (10.2). Table 49-11 Item Codes For the DBMS_DATAPUMP.GET_DUMPFILE_INFO Procedure Item Code Description KU$_DFHDR_FILE_VERSION The internal file version of the dump file. KU$_DFHDR_MASTER_PRESENT If the Data Pump master table is present in the dump file, then the value for this item code is 1; otherwise the value is 0. Returned only for filetype 1. KU$_DFHDR_GUID A unique identifier assigned to the Data Pump export job or the external tables unload job that produced the dump file. For a multifile dump set, each file in the set has the same value for this item code. KU$_DFHDR_FILE_NUMBER A numeric identifier assigned to the dump file. Each dump file in a multifile dump set has its own identifier, unique only within the dump set. KU$_DFHDR_CHARSET_ID A numeric code that represents the character set in use at the source system when the dump file was created. Returned for all filetypes. KU$_DFHDR_CREATION_DATE The date and time that the dump file was created. KU$_DFHDR_FLAGS Internal flag values. KU$_DFHDR_JOB_NAME The name assigned to the export job that created the dump file. Returned only for filetype 1. KU$_DFHDR_PLATFORM The operating system name of the source system on which the dump file was created. KU$_DFHDR_INSTANCE The instance name of the source system on which the dump file was created. KU$_DFHDR_LANGUAGE The language name that corresponds to the character set of the source system where the export dump file was created. KU$_DFHDR_BLOCKSIZE The blocksize, in bytes, of the dump file. KU$_DFHDR_DIRPATH If direct path mode was used when the dump file was created, then the value for this item code is 1, otherwise the value is 0. Returned only for filetype 2. KU$_DFHDR_METADATA_COMPRESSED If the system metadata is stored in the dump file in compressed format, then the value for this item code is 1, otherwise the value is 0. Returned only for filetype 1. KU$_DFHDR_DB_VERSION The database job version used to create the dump file. Returned for all filetypes. KU$_DFHDR_MASTER_PIECE_COUNT The Data Pump master table may be split into multiple pieces and written to multiple dump files in the set, one piece per file. The value returned for this item code indicates the number of dump files that contain pieces of the master table. The value for this item code is only meaningful if the Data Pump master table is present in the dump file, as indicated by the item code KU$_DFHDR_MASTER_PRESENT . Returned only for filetype 1. Only available since Oracle Database 11 g Release 1 (11.1). KU$_DFHDR_MASTER_PIECE_NUMBER The Data Pump master table may be split into multiple pieces and written to multiple dump files in the set, one piece per file. The value returned for this item code indicates which master table piece is contained in the dump file. The value for this item code is only meaningful if the Data Pump master table is present in the dump file, as indicated by the item code KU$_DFHDR_MASTER_PRESENT . Returned only for filetype 1. Only available since Oracle Database 11 g Release 1 (11.1). KU$_DFHDR_DATA_COMPRESSED If the table data is stored in the dump file in compressed format, then the value for this item code is 1, otherwise the value is 0. Only available since Oracle Database 11 g Release 1 (11.1). KU$_DFHDR_METADATA_ENCRYPTED If the system metadata is stored in the dump file in encrypted format, then the value for this item code is 1, otherwise the value is 0. Returned only for filetype 1. Only available since Oracle Database 11 g Release 1 (11.1). KU$_DFHDR_DATA_ENCRYPTED If the table data is stored in the dump file in encrypted format, then the value for this item code is 1, otherwise the value is 0. Only available since Oracle Database 11 g Release 1 (11.1). KU$_DFHDR_COLUMNS_ENCRYPTED If encrypted column data is stored in the dump file in encrypted format, then the value for this item code is 1, otherwise the value is 0. Returned only for filetype 1. Only available since Oracle Database 11 g Release 1 (11.1). KU$_DFHDR_ENCRYPTION_MODE The encryption mode indicates whether a user-provided password or the Oracle Encryption Wallet was used to encrypt data written to the dump file. The possible values returned for this item code are: KU$_DFHDR_ENCMODE_NONE No data was written to the dump file in encrypted format. KU$_DFHDR_ENCMODE_PASSWORD Data was written to the dump file in encrypted format using a provided password. KU$_DFHDR_ENCMODE_DUAL Data was written to the dump file in encrypted format using both a provided password as well as an Oracle Encryption Wallet. KU$_DFHDR_ENCMODE_TRANS Data was written to the dump file in encrypted format transparently using an Oracle Encryption Wallet. Only available since Oracle Database 11 g Release 1 (11.1). KU$_DFHDR_COMPRESSION_ALG The compression algorithm used when writing system metadata and/or table data to the dump file in compressed format. The possible values returned for this item code are: KU$_DFHDR_CMPALG_NONE No data was written to the dump file in compressed format. KU$_DFHDR_CMPALG_BASIC Data was written to the dump file in compressed format using an internal algorithm. This is the default algorithm used since Oracle Database 10 g Release 2 (10.2). KU$_DFHDR_CMPALG_LOW Data was written to the dump file in compressed format using the LOW algorithm. KU$_DFHDR_CMPALG_MEDIUM Data was written to the dump file in compressed format using the MEDIUM algorithm. KU$_DFHDR_CMPALG_HIGH Data was written to the dump file in compressed format using the HIGH algorithm. Only available since Oracle Database 12 c Release 1 (12.1).