---
id: 19c__DBMS_DATAPUMP.OPEN
name: DBMS_DATAPUMP.OPEN
object_type: plsql_function
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_DATAPUMP
tags: [dbms_datapump]
source_file: DBMS_DATAPUMP.html
---

# DBMS_DATAPUMP.OPEN

This function is used to declare a new job using the Data Pump API.

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_DATAPUMP.OPEN (
   operation    IN VARCHAR2,
   job_mode         IN VARCHAR2,
   remote_link  IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL,
   job_name     IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL,
   version      IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT 'COMPATIBLE')
 RETURN NUMBER;
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Mode | Description |
|-----------|------|------|-------------|
| operation | VARCHAR2 | IN | The type of operation to be performed. Table 49-21 contains descriptions of valid operation types. |
| job_mode | VARCHAR2 | IN | The scope of the operation to be performed. Table 49-22 contains descriptions of valid modes. Specifying NULL generates an error. |
| remote_link | VARCHAR2 | IN | If the value of this parameter is non-null, it provides the name of a database link to the remote database that will be the source of data and metadata for the current job. |
| job_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | The name of the job. The name is limited to 128 characters; it will be truncated if more than 128 characters are used. It may consist of printable characters and spaces. It is implicitly qualified by the schema of the user executing the OPEN function and must be unique to that schema (that is, there cannot be other Data Pump jobs using the same name). The name is used to identify the job both within the API and with other database components such as identifying the job in the DBA_RESUMABLE view if the job becomes suspended through lack of resources. If no name is supplied, a system generated name will be provided for the job in the following format: "SYS_<OPERATION>_<MODE>_%N". The default job name is formed where %N expands to a two-digit incrementing integer starting at ' 01 ' (for example, " SYS_IMPORT_FULL_03 "). The name supplied for the job will also be used to name the master table and other resources associated with the job. |
| version | VARCHAR2 | IN | The version of database objects to be extracted. This option is only valid for Export, network Import, and SQL_FILE operations. Database objects or attributes that are incompatible with the version will not be extracted. Legal values for this parameter are as follows: COMPATIBLE - (default) the version of the metadata corresponds to the database compatibility level and the compatibility release level for feature (as given in the V$COMPATIBILITY view). Database compatibility must be set to 9.2 or higher. LATEST - the version of the metadata corresponds to the database version. A specific database version, for example, '11.0.0'. Specify a value of 12 to allow all existing database features, components, and options to be exported from Oracle Database 11 g release 2 (11.2.0.3) or later into an Oracle Database 12 c Release 1 (12.1) (either a multitenant container database (CDB) or a non-CDB). |

**Returns:** `NUMBER`

## Usage Notes

The handle that is returned is used as a parameter for calls to all other procedures (but not to the ATTACH function). Syntax DBMS_DATAPUMP.OPEN ( operation IN VARCHAR2, job_mode IN VARCHAR2, remote_link IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, job_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, version IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT 'COMPATIBLE') RETURN NUMBER; Parameters Table 49-20 OPEN Function Parameters Parameter Meaning operation The type of operation to be performed. Table 49-21 contains descriptions of valid operation types. job_mode The scope of the operation to be performed. Table 49-22 contains descriptions of valid modes. Specifying NULL generates an error. remote_link If the value of this parameter is non-null, it provides the name of a database link to the remote database that will be the source of data and metadata for the current job. job_name The name of the job. The name is limited to 128 characters; it will be truncated if more than 128 characters are used. It may consist of printable characters and spaces. It is implicitly qualified by the schema of the user executing the OPEN function and must be unique to that schema (that is, there cannot be other Data Pump jobs using the same name). The name is used to identify the job both within the API and with other database components such as identifying the job in the DBA_RESUMABLE view if the job becomes suspended through lack of resources. If no name is supplied, a system generated name will be provided for the job in the following format: "SYS_<OPERATION>_<MODE>_%N". The default job name is formed where %N expands to a two-digit incrementing integer starting at ' 01 ' (for example, " SYS_IMPORT_FULL_03 "). The name supplied for the job will also be used to name the master table and other resources associated with the job. version The version of database objects to be extracted. This option is only valid for Export, network Import, and SQL_FILE operations. Database objects or attributes that are incompatible with the version will not be extracted. Legal values for this parameter are as follows: COMPATIBLE - (default) the version of the metadata corresponds to the database compatibility level and the compatibility release level for feature (as given in the V$COMPATIBILITY view). Database compatibility must be set to 9.2 or higher. LATEST - the version of the metadata corresponds to the database version. A specific database version, for example, '11.0.0'. Specify a value of 12 to allow all existing database features, components, and options to be exported from Oracle Database 11 g release 2 (11.2.0.3) or later into an Oracle Database 12 c Release 1 (12.1) (either a multitenant container database (CDB) or a non-CDB). Table 49-21 describes the valid operation types for the OPEN function. Table 49-21 Valid Operation Types for the OPEN Function Operation Description EXPORT Saves data and metadata to a dump file set or obtains an estimate of the size of the data for an operation. IMPORT Restores data and metadata from a dump file set or across a database link. SQL_FILE Displays the metadata within a dump file set, or from across a network link, as a SQL script. The location of the SQL script is specified through the ADD_FILE procedure. Table 49-22 describes the valid modes for the OPEN function. Table 49-22 Valid Modes for the OPEN Function Mode Description FULL Operates on the full database or full dump file set except for Oracle Database internal schemas. (Some tables from Oracle Database internal schemas may be registered to be exported and imported in full operations in order to provide consistent metadata during import.) The TRANSPORTABLE parameter can be set to ALWAYS during a full database export in order to move data via transportable tablespaces rather than in the Data Pump dump file. SCHEMA Operates on a set of selected schemas. Defaults to the schema of the current user. All objects in the selected schemas are processed. In SCHEMA mode, you cannot specify Oracle-internal schemas (for example, SYS , XDB , ORDSYS , MDSYS , CTXSYS , ORDPLUGINS , or LBACSYS ). TABLE Operates on a set of selected tables. Defaults to all of the tables in the current user's schema. Only tables and their dependent objects are processed. TABLESPACE Operates on a set of selected tablespaces. No defaulting is performed. Tables that have storage in the specified tablespaces are processed in the same manner as in Table mode. TRANSPORTABLE Operates on metadata for tables (and their dependent objects) within a set of selected tablespaces to perform a transportable tablespace export/import. Return Values An opaque handle for the job. This handle is used as input to the following procedures: ADD_FILE , CREATE_JOB_VIEW , DATA_FILTER , DETACH , GET_STATUS , LOG_ENTRY , LOG_ERROR,METADATA_FILTER , METADATA_REMAP , METADATA_TRANSFORM , SET_PARALLEL,SET_PARAMETER , START_JOB,STOP_JOB, and WAIT_FOR_JOB Exceptions INVALID_ARGVAL . An invalid operation or mode was specified. A NULL or invalid value was supplied for an input parameter. The error message text identifies the parameter. JOB_EXISTS . A table already exists with the specified job name. PRIVILEGE_ERROR . The user does not have the necessary privileges or roles to use the specified mode. INTERNAL_ERROR . The job was created under the wrong schema or the master table was of the wrong format. SUCCESS_WITH_INFO . The function succeeded, but further information is available through the GET_STATUS procedure. NO_SUCH_JOB . The specified job does not exist.