---
id: 19c__DBMS_COMPARISON.CREATE_COMPARISON
name: DBMS_COMPARISON.CREATE_COMPARISON
object_type: plsql_procedure
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_COMPARISON
tags: [dbms_comparison]
source_file: DBMS_COMPARISON.html
---

# DBMS_COMPARISON.CREATE_COMPARISON

This procedure creates a comparison.

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_COMPARISON.CREATE_COMPARISON(
   comparison_name      IN  VARCHAR2,
   schema_name          IN  VARCHAR2,
   object_name          IN  VARCHAR2,
   dblink_name          IN  VARCHAR2,
   index_schema_name    IN  VARCHAR2  DEFAULT NULL,
   index_name           IN  VARCHAR2  DEFAULT NULL,
   remote_schema_name   IN  VARCHAR2  DEFAULT NULL,
   remote_object_name   IN  VARCHAR2  DEFAULT NULL,
   comparison_mode      IN  VARCHAR2  DEFAULT CMP_COMPARE_MODE_OBJECT,
   column_list          IN  VARCHAR2  DEFAULT '*',
   scan_mode            IN  VARCHAR2  DEFAULT CMP_SCAN_MODE_FULL,
   scan_percent         IN  NUMBER    DEFAULT NULL,
   null_value           IN  VARCHAR2  DEFAULT CMP_NULL_VALUE_DEF,
   local_converge_tag   IN  RAW       DEFAULT NULL,
   remote_converge_tag  IN  RAW       DEFAULT NULL,
   max_num_buckets      IN  NUMBER    DEFAULT CMP_MAX_NUM_BUCKETS,
   min_rows_in_bucket   IN  NUMBER    DEFAULT CMP_MIN_ROWS_IN_BUCKET);
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Mode | Description |
|-----------|------|------|-------------|
| comparison_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | The name of the comparison. |
| schema_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | The name of the schema that contains the local database object to compare. |
| object_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | The name of the local database object to compare. |
| dblink_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Database link to the remote database. The specified database object in the remote database is compared with the database object in the local database. If NULL , then the comparison is configured to compare two database objects in the local database. In this case, parameters that specify the remote database object apply to the second database object in the comparison and to operations on the second database object. For example, specify the second database object in this procedure by using the remote_schema_name and remote_object_name parameters. |
| index_schema_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | The name of the schema that contains the index. If NULL , then the schema specified in the schema_name parameter is used. |
| index_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | The name of the index. If NULL , then the system determines the index columns for the comparison automatically. If the index_schema_name parameter is non- NULL , then the index_name parameter must also be non- NULL . Otherwise, an error is raised. See Also: " Usage Notes " for more information about specifying an index |
| remote_schema_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | The name of the schema that contains the database object at the remote database. Specify a non- NULL value if the schema names are different at the two databases. If NULL , then the schema specified in the schema_name parameter is used. |
| remote_object_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | The name of the database object at the remote database. Specify a non- NULL value if the database object names are different at the two databases. If NULL , then the database object specified in the object_name parameter is used. |
| comparison_mode | VARCHAR2 | IN | Specify the default value CMP_COMPARE_MODE_OBJECT . Additional modes might be added in future releases. |
| column_list | VARCHAR2 | IN | Specify '*' to include all of the columns in the database objects being compared. To compare a subset of columns in the database objects, specify a comma-delimited list of the columns to check. Any columns that are not in the list are ignored during a comparison and convergence. See " Usage Notes " for information about columns that are required in the column_list parameter. |
| scan_mode | VARCHAR2 | IN | Either CMP_SCAN_MODE_FULL , CMP_SCAN_MODE_RANDOM , CMP_SCAN_MODE_CYCLIC , or CMP_SCAN_MODE_CUSTOM . If you specify CMP_SCAN_MODE_CUSTOM , then make sure you specify an index using the index_schema_name and index_name parameters. Specifying an index ensures that you can specify the correct min_value and max_value for the lead index column when you run the COMPARE or RECHECK function. See " Constants " for information about these constants. |
| scan_percent | NUMBER | IN | The percentage of the database object to scan for comparison when the scan_mode parameter is set to either CMP_SCAN_MODE_RANDOM or CMP_SCAN_MODE_CYCLIC . For these scan_mode settings, a non- NULL value that is greater than 0 (zero) and less than 100 is required. If NULL and the scan_mode parameter is set to CMP_SCAN_MODE_FULL , then the entire database object is scanned for comparison. If NULL and the scan_mode parameter is set to CMP_SCAN_MODE_CUSTOM , then the portion of the database object scanned for comparison is specified when the COMPARE function is run. If non- NULL and the scan_mode parameter is set to either CMP_SCAN_MODE_FULL or CMP_SCAN_MODE_CUSTOM , then the scan_percent parameter is ignored. Note: When the scan_percent parameter is non- NULL , and the lead index column for the comparison does not distribute the rows in the database object evenly, the portion of the database object that is compared might be smaller or larger than the specified scan_percent value. See DBMS_COMPARISON Operational Notes for more information about the DBMS_COMPARISON package index requirements for the lead index column. |
| null_value | VARCHAR2 | IN | The value to substitute for each NULL in the database objects being compared. Specify a value or use the CMP_NULL_VALUE_DEF constant. If a column being compared can contain NULL s, then the value specified for this parameter must be different than any non- NULL value in the column. Otherwise, if the value specified for this parameter can appear in the column, some row differences might not be found. See " Constants " for information about this constant. |
| local_converge_tag | RAW | IN | The Oracle Replication tag to set in the session on the local database before performing any changes to converge the data in the database objects being compared. If the local_converge_tag parameter is non- NULL in the CONVERGE procedure when comparison results for this comparison are converged, then the setting in the CONVERGE procedure takes precedence. See CONVERGE Procedure for more information. |
| remote_converge_tag | RAW | IN | The Oracle Replication tag to set in the session on the remote database before performing any changes to converge the data in the database objects being compared. If the remote_converge_tag parameter is non- NULL in the CONVERGE procedure when comparison results for this comparison are converged, then the setting in the CONVERGE procedure takes precedence. See CONVERGE Procedure for more information. |
| max_num_buckets | NUMBER | IN | Specify the maximum number of buckets to use. Specify a value or use the CMP_MAX_NUM_BUCKETS constant. See " Constants " for information about this constant. See " Overview " for information about buckets. Note: If an index column for a comparison is a VARCHAR2 or CHAR column, then the number of buckets might exceed the value specified for the max_num_buckets parameter. |
| min_rows_in_bucket | NUMBER | IN | Specify the minimum number of rows in each bucket. Specify a value or use the CMP_MIN_ROWS_IN_BUCKET constant. See " Constants " for information about this constant. See " Overview " for information about buckets. |

## Usage Notes

Syntax DBMS_COMPARISON.CREATE_COMPARISON( comparison_name IN VARCHAR2, schema_name IN VARCHAR2, object_name IN VARCHAR2, dblink_name IN VARCHAR2, index_schema_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, index_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, remote_schema_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, remote_object_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, comparison_mode IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT CMP_COMPARE_MODE_OBJECT, column_list IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT '*', scan_mode IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT CMP_SCAN_MODE_FULL, scan_percent IN NUMBER DEFAULT NULL, null_value IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT CMP_NULL_VALUE_DEF, local_converge_tag IN RAW DEFAULT NULL, remote_converge_tag IN RAW DEFAULT NULL, max_num_buckets IN NUMBER DEFAULT CMP_MAX_NUM_BUCKETS, min_rows_in_bucket IN NUMBER DEFAULT CMP_MIN_ROWS_IN_BUCKET); Parameters Table 37-6 CREATE_COMPARISON Procedure Parameters Parameter Description comparison_name The name of the comparison. schema_name The name of the schema that contains the local database object to compare. object_name The name of the local database object to compare. dblink_name Database link to the remote database. The specified database object in the remote database is compared with the database object in the local database. If NULL , then the comparison is configured to compare two database objects in the local database. In this case, parameters that specify the remote database object apply to the second database object in the comparison and to operations on the second database object. For example, specify the second database object in this procedure by using the remote_schema_name and remote_object_name parameters. index_schema_name The name of the schema that contains the index. If NULL , then the schema specified in the schema_name parameter is used. index_name The name of the index. If NULL , then the system determines the index columns for the comparison automatically. If the index_schema_name parameter is non- NULL , then the index_name parameter must also be non- NULL . Otherwise, an error is raised. See Also: " Usage Notes " for more information about specifying an index remote_schema_name The name of the schema that contains the database object at the remote database. Specify a non- NULL value if the schema names are different at the two databases. If NULL , then the schema specified in the schema_name parameter is used. remote_object_name The name of the database object at the remote database. Specify a non- NULL value if the database object names are different at the two databases. If NULL , then the database object specified in the object_name parameter is used. comparison_mode Specify the default value CMP_COMPARE_MODE_OBJECT . Additional modes might be added in future releases. column_list Specify '*' to include all of the columns in the database objects being compared. To compare a subset of columns in the database objects, specify a comma-delimited list of the columns to check. Any columns that are not in the list are ignored during a comparison and convergence. See " Usage Notes " for information about columns that are required in the column_list parameter. scan_mode Either CMP_SCAN_MODE_FULL , CMP_SCAN_MODE_RANDOM , CMP_SCAN_MODE_CYCLIC , or CMP_SCAN_MODE_CUSTOM . If you specify CMP_SCAN_MODE_CUSTOM , then make sure you specify an index using the index_schema_name and index_name parameters. Specifying an index ensures that you can specify the correct min_value and max_value for the lead index column when you run the COMPARE or RECHECK function. See " Constants " for information about these constants. scan_percent The percentage of the database object to scan for comparison when the scan_mode parameter is set to either CMP_SCAN_MODE_RANDOM or CMP_SCAN_MODE_CYCLIC . For these scan_mode settings, a non- NULL value that is greater than 0 (zero) and less than 100 is required. If NULL and the scan_mode parameter is set to CMP_SCAN_MODE_FULL , then the entire database object is scanned for comparison. If NULL and the scan_mode parameter is set to CMP_SCAN_MODE_CUSTOM , then the portion of the database object scanned for comparison is specified when the COMPARE function is run. If non- NULL and the scan_mode parameter is set to either CMP_SCAN_MODE_FULL or CMP_SCAN_MODE_CUSTOM , then the scan_percent parameter is ignored. Note: When the scan_percent parameter is non- NULL , and the lead index column for the comparison does not distribute the rows in the database object evenly, the portion of the database object that is compared might be smaller or larger than the specified scan_percent value. See DBMS_COMPARISON Operational Notes for more information about the DBMS_COMPARISON package index requirements for the lead index column. null_value The value to substitute for each NULL in the database objects being compared. Specify a value or use the CMP_NULL_VALUE_DEF constant. If a column being compared can contain NULL s, then the value specified for this parameter must be different than any non- NULL value in the column. Otherwise, if the value specified for this parameter can appear in the column, some row differences might not be found. See " Constants " for information about this constant. local_converge_tag The Oracle Replication tag to set in the session on the local database before performing any changes to converge the data in the database objects being compared. If the local_converge_tag parameter is non- NULL in the CONVERGE procedure when comparison results for this comparison are converged, then the setting in the CONVERGE procedure takes precedence. See CONVERGE Procedure for more information. remote_converge_tag The Oracle Replication tag to set in the session on the remote database before performing any changes to converge the data in the database objects being compared. If the remote_converge_tag parameter is non- NULL in the CONVERGE procedure when comparison results for this comparison are converged, then the setting in the CONVERGE procedure takes precedence. See CONVERGE Procedure for more information. max_num_buckets Specify the maximum number of buckets to use. Specify a value or use the CMP_MAX_NUM_BUCKETS constant. See " Constants " for information about this constant. See " Overview " for information about buckets. Note: If an index column for a comparison is a VARCHAR2 or CHAR column, then the number of buckets might exceed the value specified for the max_num_buckets parameter. min_rows_in_bucket Specify the minimum number of rows in each bucket. Specify a value or use the CMP_MIN_ROWS_IN_BUCKET constant. See " Constants " for information about this constant. See " Overview " for information about buckets. Usage Notes This section contains usage notes for the CREATE_COMPARISON procedure. Usage Notes for the index_schema_name and index_name Parameters When you specify an index for a comparison with the index_schema_name and index_name parameters, the specified index determines the comparison's index columns and their ordering. The order of the columns in the index determines the index column ordering for the comparison. Therefore, the column in column position 1 in the index is the lead column for the comparison. The index columns and their ordering affect the details of each SQL statement generated and executed for a comparison. For each SQL statement, the optimizer decides whether to use indexes. If the optimizer decides to use indexes, then the optimizer decides which particular indexes to use. An index specified in column_list parameter might or might not be used. The columns in the specified index must meet the requirements described in DBMS_COMPARISON Operational Notes . If the index columns do not meet these requirements, then an error is raised. Note: If you do not specify an index when you create a comparison, then the CREATE_COMPARISON procedure selects either the primary key, if it exists, or an existing unique index. The procedure never selects a non-unique index. However, if you specify an index, then the CREATE_COMPARISON procedure does not check its uniqueness. Therefore, if you specify a non-unique index, and duplicate index keys exist, then the results might be incorrect when the CONVERGE procedure synchronizes data. Usage Notes for the column_list Parameter When the column_list parameter is set to a value other than '*' , the following columns are required in the column_list parameter: Any columns that are required to meet the index column requirements for the DBMS_COMPARISON package. If the index_name parameter is non- NULL , then the columns in the specified index must be in the column list. If the index_name parameter is NULL , then see DBMS_COMPARISON Operational Notes for information about the DBMS_COMPARISON index requirements. If you plan to use the CONVERGE procedure to make changes to a database object based on the comparison, then any columns in this database object that have a NOT NULL constraint but no default value must be included in the column list. If these columns are not included, then the CONVERGE procedure returns an error. See CONVERGE Procedure . Note: If you do not specify an index when you create a comparison, then the CREATE_COMPARISON procedure selects either the primary key, if it exists, or an existing unique index. The procedure never selects a non-unique index. However, if you specify an index, then the CREATE_COMPARISON procedure does not check its uniqueness. Therefore, if you specify a non-unique index, and duplicate index keys exist, then the results might be incorrect when the CONVERGE procedure synchronizes data.