---
id: 19c__DBMS_DATA_MINING.CREATE_MODEL
name: DBMS_DATA_MINING.CREATE_MODEL
object_type: plsql_procedure
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_DATA_MINING
tags: [dbms_data_mining]
source_file: DBMS_DATA_MINING.html
---

# DBMS_DATA_MINING.CREATE_MODEL

This procedure creates a mining model with a given mining function.

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_DATA_MINING.CREATE_MODEL (
      model_name            IN VARCHAR2,
      mining_function       IN VARCHAR2,
      data_table_name       IN VARCHAR2,
      case_id_column_name   IN VARCHAR2,
      target_column_name    IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL,
      settings_table_name   IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL,
      data_schema_name      IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL,
      settings_schema_name  IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL,
      xform_list            IN TRANSFORM_LIST DEFAULT NULL);
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Mode | Description |
|-----------|------|------|-------------|
| model_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Name of the model in the form [ schema_name .] model_name . If you do not specify a schema, then your own schema is used. See the Usage Notes for model naming restrictions. |
| mining_function | VARCHAR2 | IN | The mining function. Values are listed in Table 47-3 . |
| data_table_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Table or view containing the build data |
| case_id_column_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Case identifier column in the build data. |
| target_column_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | For supervised models, the target column in the build data. NULL for unsupervised models. |
| settings_table_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Table containing build settings for the model. NULL if there is no settings table (only default settings are used). |
| data_schema_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Schema hosting the build data. If NULL , then the user's schema is assumed. |
| settings_schema_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Schema hosting the settings table. If NULL then the user's schema is assumed. |
| xform_list | TRANSFORM_LIST | IN | A list of transformations to be used in addition to or instead of automatic transformations, depending on the value of the PREP_AUTO setting. (See " Automatic Data Preparation " .) The datatype of xform_list is TRANSFORM_LIST , which consists of records of type TRANSFORM_REC . Each TRANSFORM_REC specifies the transformation information for a single attribute. TYPE TRANFORM_REC IS RECORD ( attribute_name VARCHAR2(4000), attribute_subname VARCHAR2(4000), expression EXPRESSION_REC, reverse_expression EXPRESSION_REC, attribute_spec VARCHAR2(4000)); The expression field stores a SQL expression for transforming the attribute. The reverse_expression field stores a SQL expression for reversing the transformation in model details and, if the attribute is a target, in the results of scoring. The SQL expressions are manipulated by routines in the DBMS_DATA_MINING_TRANSFORM package: SET_EXPRESSION Procedure GET_EXPRESSION Function SET_TRANSFORM Procedure The attribute_spec field identifies individualized treatment for the attribute. See the Usage Notes for details. See Table 48-1 for details about the TRANSFORM_REC type. |

## Usage Notes

Syntax DBMS_DATA_MINING.CREATE_MODEL ( model_name IN VARCHAR2, mining_function IN VARCHAR2, data_table_name IN VARCHAR2, case_id_column_name IN VARCHAR2, target_column_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, settings_table_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, data_schema_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, settings_schema_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, xform_list IN TRANSFORM_LIST DEFAULT NULL); Parameters Table 47-62 CREATE_MODEL Procedure Parameters Parameter Description model_name Name of the model in the form [ schema_name .] model_name . If you do not specify a schema, then your own schema is used. See the Usage Notes for model naming restrictions. mining_function The mining function. Values are listed in Table 47-3 . data_table_name Table or view containing the build data case_id_column_name Case identifier column in the build data. target_column_name For supervised models, the target column in the build data. NULL for unsupervised models. settings_table_name Table containing build settings for the model. NULL if there is no settings table (only default settings are used). data_schema_name Schema hosting the build data. If NULL , then the user's schema is assumed. settings_schema_name Schema hosting the settings table. If NULL then the user's schema is assumed. xform_list A list of transformations to be used in addition to or instead of automatic transformations, depending on the value of the PREP_AUTO setting. (See " Automatic Data Preparation " .) The datatype of xform_list is TRANSFORM_LIST , which consists of records of type TRANSFORM_REC . Each TRANSFORM_REC specifies the transformation information for a single attribute. TYPE TRANFORM_REC IS RECORD ( attribute_name VARCHAR2(4000), attribute_subname VARCHAR2(4000), expression EXPRESSION_REC, reverse_expression EXPRESSION_REC, attribute_spec VARCHAR2(4000)); The expression field stores a SQL expression for transforming the attribute. The reverse_expression field stores a SQL expression for reversing the transformation in model details and, if the attribute is a target, in the results of scoring. The SQL expressions are manipulated by routines in the DBMS_DATA_MINING_TRANSFORM package: SET_EXPRESSION Procedure GET_EXPRESSION Function SET_TRANSFORM Procedure The attribute_spec field identifies individualized treatment for the attribute. See the Usage Notes for details. See Table 48-1 for details about the TRANSFORM_REC type. Usage Notes You can use the attribute_spec field of the xform_list argument to identify an attribute as unstructured text or to disable Automatic Data Preparation for the attribute. The attribute_spec can have the following values: TEXT : Indicates that the attribute contains unstructured text. The TEXT value may optionally be followed by POLICY_NAME , TOKEN_TYPE , MAX_FEATURES , and MIN_DOCUMENTS parameters. TOKEN_TYPE has the following possible values: NORMAL , STEM , THEME , SYNONYM , BIGRAM , STEM_BIGRAM . SYNONYM may be optionally followed by a thesaurus name in square brackets. MAX_FEATURES specifies the maximum number of tokens extracted from the text. MIN_DOCUMENTS specifies the minimal number of documents in which every selected token shall occur. (For information about creating a text policy, see CTX_DDL.CREATE_POLICY in Oracle Text Reference ). Oracle Data Mining can process columns of VARCHAR2 / CHAR , CLOB , BLOB , and BFILE as text. If the column is VARCHAR2 or CHAR and you do not specify TEXT , Oracle Data Mining will process the column as categorical data. If the column is CLOB , then Oracle Data Mining will process it as text by default (You do not need to specify it as TEXT . However, you do need to provide an Oracle Text Policy in the settings). If the column is BLOB or BFILE , you must specify it as TEXT , otherwise CREATE_MODEL will return an error. If you specify TEXT for a nested column or for an attribute in a nested column, CREATE_MODEL will return an error. NOPREP : Disables ADP for the attribute. When ADP is OFF , the NOPREP value is ignored. You can specify NOPREP for a nested column, but not for an attribute in a nested column. If you specify NOPREP for an attribute in a nested column when ADP is on, CREATE_MODEL will return an error. You can obtain information about a model by querying the Data Dictionary views. ALL/USER/DBA_MINING_MODELS ALL/USER/DBA_MINING_MODEL_ATTRIBUTES ALL/USER/DBA_MINING_MODEL_SETTINGS ALL/USER/DBA_MINING_MODEL_VIEWS ALL/USER/DBA_MINING_MODEL_PARTITIONS ALL/USER/DBA_MINING_MODEL_XFORMS You can obtain information about model attributes by querying the model details through model views. Refer to Oracle Data Mining User’s Guide . The naming rules for models are more restrictive than the naming rules for most database schema objects. A model name must satisfy the following additional requirements: It must be 123 or fewer characters long. It must be a nonquoted identifier. Oracle requires that nonquoted identifiers contain only alphanumeric characters, the underscore (_), dollar sign ($), and pound sign (#); the initial character must be alphabetic. Oracle strongly discourages the use of the dollar sign and pound sign in nonquoted literals. Naming requirements for schema objects are fully documented in Oracle Database SQL Language Reference . To build a partitioned model, you must provide additional settings. The setting for partitioning columns are as follows: INSERT INTO settings_table VALUES (‘ODMS_PARTITION_COLUMNS’, ‘GENDER, AGE’); To set user-defined partition number for a model, the setting is as follows: INSERT INTO settings_table VALUES ('ODMS_MAX_PARTITIONS’, '10’); The default value for maximum number of partitions is 1000 . By passing an xform_list to CREATE_MODEL , you can specify a list of transformations to be performed on the input data. If the PREP_AUTO setting is ON , the transformations are used in addition to the automatic transformations. If the PREP_AUTO setting is OFF , the specified transformations are the only ones implemented by the model. In both cases, transformation definitions are embedded in the model and executed automatically whenever the model is applied. See " Automatic Data Preparation " . Other transforms that can be specified with xform_list include FORCE_IN . Refer to Oracle Data Mining User’s Guide . Examples The first example builds a Classification model using the Support Vector Machine algorithm. -- Create the settings table CREATE TABLE svm_model_settings ( setting_name VARCHAR2(30), setting_value VARCHAR2(30)); -- Populate the settings table -- Specify SVM. By default, Naive Bayes is used for classification. -- Specify ADP. By default, ADP is not used. BEGIN INSERT INTO svm_model_settings (setting_name, setting_value) VALUES (dbms_data_mining.algo_name, dbms_data_mining.algo_support_vector_machines); INSERT INTO svm_model_settings (setting_name, setting_value) VALUES (dbms_data_mining.prep_auto,dbms_data_mining.prep_auto_on); COMMIT; END; / -- Create the model using the specified settings BEGIN DBMS_DATA_MINING.CREATE_MODEL( model_name => 'svm_model', mining_function => dbms_data_mining.classification, data_table_name => 'mining_data_build_v', case_id_column_name => 'cust_id', target_column_name => 'affinity_card', settings_table_name => 'svm_model_settings'); END; / You can display the model settings with the following query: SELECT * FROM user_mining_model_settings WHERE model_name IN 'SVM_MODEL'; MODEL_NAME SETTING_NAME SETTING_VALUE SETTING ------------- ---------------------- ----------------------------- ------- SVM_MODEL ALGO_NAME ALGO_SUPPORT_VECTOR_MACHINES INPUT SVM_MODEL SVMS_STD_DEV 3.004524 DEFAULT SVM_MODEL PREP_AUTO ON INPUT SVM_MODEL SVMS_COMPLEXITY_FACTOR 1.887389 DEFAULT SVM_MODEL SVMS_KERNEL_FUNCTION SVMS_LINEAR DEFAULT SVM_MODEL SVMS_CONV_TOLERANCE .001 DEFAULT The following is an example of querying a model view instead of the older GEL_MODEL_DETAILS_SVM routine. SELECT target_value, attribute_name, attribute_value, coefficient FROM DM$VLSVM_MODEL; The second example creates an Anomaly Detection model. Anomaly Detection uses SVM Classification without a target. This example uses the same settings table created for the SVM Classification model in the first example. BEGIN DBMS_DATA_MINING.CREATE_MODEL( model_name => 'anomaly_detect_model', mining_function => dbms_data_mining.classification, data_table_name => 'mining_data_build_v', case_id_column_name => 'cust_id', target_column_name => null, settings_table_name => 'svm_model_settings'); END; / This query shows that the models created in these examples are the only ones in your schema. SELECT model_name, mining_function, algorithm FROM user_mining_models; MODEL_NAME MINING_FUNCTION ALGORITHM ---------------------- -------------------- ------------------------------ SVM_MODEL CLASSIFICATION SUPPORT_VECTOR_MACHINES ANOMALY_DETECT_MODEL CLASSIFICATION SUPPORT_VECTOR_MACHINES This query shows that only the SVM Classification model has a target. SELECT model_name, attribute_name, attribute_type, target FROM user_mining_model_attributes WHERE target = 'YES'; MODEL_NAME ATTRIBUTE_NAME ATTRIBUTE_TYPE TARGET ------------------ --------------- ----------------- ------ SVM_MODEL AFFINITY_CARD CATEGORICAL YES