---
id: 19c__DBMS_LOGSTDBY.SKIP
name: DBMS_LOGSTDBY.SKIP
object_type: plsql_procedure
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_LOGSTDBY
tags: [dbms_logstdby]
source_file: DBMS_LOGSTDBY.html
---

# DBMS_LOGSTDBY.SKIP

The SKIP procedure can be used to define rules that will be used by SQL Apply to skip the application of certain changes to the logical standby database.

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_LOGSTDBY.SKIP (
     stmt                      IN VARCHAR2,
     schema_name               IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL,
     object_name               IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL,
     proc_name                 IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL,
     use_like                  IN BOOLEAN DEFAULT TRUE,
     esc                       IN CHAR1 DEFAULT NULL);
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Mode | Description |
|-----------|------|------|-------------|
| stmt | VARCHAR2 | IN | Either a keyword that identifies a set of SQL statements or a specific SQL statement. The use of keywords simplifies configuration since keywords, generally defined by the database object, identify all SQL statements that operate on the specified object. Table 102-15 shows a list of keywords and the equivalent SQL statements, either of which is a valid value for this parameter. The keyword PL/SQL is used for the execution of Oracle-supplied packages which are supported for replication. |
| schema_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | The name of one or more schemas (wildcards are permitted) associated with the SQL statements identified by the stmt parameter. If not applicable, this value must be set to NULL . |
| object_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | The name of one or more objects (wildcards are permitted) associated with the SQL statements identified by the stmt . If not applicable, this value must be set to NULL . |
| proc_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Name of a stored procedure to call when SQL Apply determines that a particular statement matches the filter defined by the stmt , schema_name , and object_name parameters. Specify the procedure in the following format: 'schema.package.procedure' This procedure returns a value that directs SQL Apply to perform one of the following: execute the statement, skip the statement, or execute a replacement statement. The procedures to be invoked in the case of DDL or PL/SQL take no arguments. You can access the various information needed inside the procedure by accessing the context associated with the namespace, LSBY_APPLY_CONTEXT . For a full list of parameters that are accessible in the context of the skip procedure, see the DBMS_LOGSTBDY_CONTEXT package. The parameters of interest in the case of DDLs are: STATEMENT , STATEMENT_TYPE , SCHEMA , NAME , CURENT_SCHEMA , XIDUSN , XIDSLT , XIDSQN and SKIP_ACTION . The parameters of interest in the case of PL/SQL are: STATEMENT , PACKAGE_SCHMEMA , PACKAGE_NAME , PROCEDURE_NAME , CURRENT_SCHEMA , XIDUSN , XIDSLT , XIDSQN , EXIT_STATUS , and SKIP_ACTION .. Note 1 : The DBMS_LOGSTDBY . SKIP_ACTION_REPLACE constant is not supported for PL/SQL. Note 2 : SQL Apply calls the skip handler when the procedure's exit is processed. Note 3 : The use_like parameter must be set to FALSE for PL/SQL since wildcarding PL/SQL is not supported. |
| proc_name (cont.) |  |  | A sample conditional skip rule on DBMS_RLS.DROP_POLICY is as follows: create or replace procedure sec.mgr.skip_drop_policy is l_stmt CLOB; l_pkgown varchar2(30); l_pkgnam varchar2(30); l_procnm varchar2(30); l_cur_schema varchar2(30); l_xidusn number; l_xidslt number; l_xidsqn number; l_exit_status number; l_skip_action number; Begin -- read all relevant info dbms_logstdby_context.get_context(name => 'STATEMENT', value => l_stmt); dbms_logstdby_context.get_context(name => 'PACKAGE_SCHEMA', value => l_pkgown); dbms_logstdby_context.get_context(name => 'PACKAGE_NAME', value => l_pkgnam); dbms_logstdby_context.get_context(name => 'PROCEDURE_NAME', value => l_procnm); dbms_logstdby_context.get_context(name => 'CURRENT_SCHEMA', value => l_cur_schema); dbms_logstdby_context.get_context(name => 'XIDUSN', value => l_xidusn); dbms_logstdby_context.get_context(name => 'XIDSLT', value => l_xidslt); dbms_logstdby_context.get_context(name => 'XIDSQN', value => l_xidsqn); dbms_logstdby_context.get_context(name => 'EXIT_STATUS', value => l_ext_status); if 0 == l_ext_status then Insert Into sec_mgr.logit Values ('Success: '||l_pkgown||'.'||l_pkgnm||'.'||l_procnm|| ' by '||l_current_user); If l_current_user != 'TESTSCHEMA' Then l_skip_action := DBMS_LOGSTDBY.SKIP_ACTION_APPLY; Else l_skip_action := DBMS_LOGSTDBY.SKIP_ACTION_SKIP; End If; End If; dbms_logstdby_context.set_context(name=>'SKIP_ACTION', value => l_skip_action); End skip_drop_policy; EXECUTE DBMS_LOGSTDBY.SKIP( - stmt => 'PL/SQL', - schema_name => 'SYS', - object_name => 'DBMS_RLS.DROP_POLICY', - proc_name => 'SEC_MGR.SKIP_DROP_POLICY' - use_like=> FALSE); |
| use_like | BOOLEAN | IN | Allows pattern matching to isolate the tables that you want to skip on the logical standby database. The use_like parameter matches a portion of one character value to another by searching the first value for the pattern specified by the second, and calculates strings using characters as defined by the input character set. This parameter follows the same rules for pattern matching described in Oracle Database SQL Language Reference . |
| esc | CHAR1 | IN | Identifies an escape character (such as the character "/") that you can use for pattern matching. If the escape character appears in the pattern before the character "%" or "_" then Oracle interprets this character literally in the pattern, rather than as a special pattern matching character. See Oracle Database SQL Language Reference for more information about pattern matching. |

## Usage Notes

For example, the SKIP procedure can be used to skip changes to a subset of tables in the logical standby database. It can also be used to specify DDL statements that should not be applied at the logical standby database or should be modified before they are applied in the logical standby database. One reason why a DDL statement may need to be modified is to accommodate a different directory structure on the logical standby database. Note: For information about skipping containers, see " Skipping Containers ." Note: For information about skipping containers, see " Skipping Containers ." Syntax DBMS_LOGSTDBY.SKIP ( stmt IN VARCHAR2, schema_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, object_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, proc_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, use_like IN BOOLEAN DEFAULT TRUE, esc IN CHAR1 DEFAULT NULL); Parameters Table 102-14 SKIP Procedure Parameters Parameter Description stmt Either a keyword that identifies a set of SQL statements or a specific SQL statement. The use of keywords simplifies configuration since keywords, generally defined by the database object, identify all SQL statements that operate on the specified object. Table 102-15 shows a list of keywords and the equivalent SQL statements, either of which is a valid value for this parameter. The keyword PL/SQL is used for the execution of Oracle-supplied packages which are supported for replication. schema_name The name of one or more schemas (wildcards are permitted) associated with the SQL statements identified by the stmt parameter. If not applicable, this value must be set to NULL . object_name The name of one or more objects (wildcards are permitted) associated with the SQL statements identified by the stmt . If not applicable, this value must be set to NULL . proc_name Name of a stored procedure to call when SQL Apply determines that a particular statement matches the filter defined by the stmt , schema_name , and object_name parameters. Specify the procedure in the following format: 'schema.package.procedure' This procedure returns a value that directs SQL Apply to perform one of the following: execute the statement, skip the statement, or execute a replacement statement. The procedures to be invoked in the case of DDL or PL/SQL take no arguments. You can access the various information needed inside the procedure by accessing the context associated with the namespace, LSBY_APPLY_CONTEXT . For a full list of parameters that are accessible in the context of the skip procedure, see the DBMS_LOGSTBDY_CONTEXT package. The parameters of interest in the case of DDLs are: STATEMENT , STATEMENT_TYPE , SCHEMA , NAME , CURENT_SCHEMA , XIDUSN , XIDSLT , XIDSQN and SKIP_ACTION . The parameters of interest in the case of PL/SQL are: STATEMENT , PACKAGE_SCHMEMA , PACKAGE_NAME , PROCEDURE_NAME , CURRENT_SCHEMA , XIDUSN , XIDSLT , XIDSQN , EXIT_STATUS , and SKIP_ACTION .. Note 1 : The DBMS_LOGSTDBY . SKIP_ACTION_REPLACE constant is not supported for PL/SQL. Note 2 : SQL Apply calls the skip handler when the procedure's exit is processed. Note 3 : The use_like parameter must be set to FALSE for PL/SQL since wildcarding PL/SQL is not supported. proc_name (cont.) A sample conditional skip rule on DBMS_RLS.DROP_POLICY is as follows: create or replace procedure sec.mgr.skip_drop_policy is l_stmt CLOB; l_pkgown varchar2(30); l_pkgnam varchar2(30); l_procnm varchar2(30); l_cur_schema varchar2(30); l_xidusn number; l_xidslt number; l_xidsqn number; l_exit_status number; l_skip_action number; Begin -- read all relevant info dbms_logstdby_context.get_context(name => 'STATEMENT', value => l_stmt); dbms_logstdby_context.get_context(name => 'PACKAGE_SCHEMA', value => l_pkgown); dbms_logstdby_context.get_context(name => 'PACKAGE_NAME', value => l_pkgnam); dbms_logstdby_context.get_context(name => 'PROCEDURE_NAME', value => l_procnm); dbms_logstdby_context.get_context(name => 'CURRENT_SCHEMA', value => l_cur_schema); dbms_logstdby_context.get_context(name => 'XIDUSN', value => l_xidusn); dbms_logstdby_context.get_context(name => 'XIDSLT', value => l_xidslt); dbms_logstdby_context.get_context(name => 'XIDSQN', value => l_xidsqn); dbms_logstdby_context.get_context(name => 'EXIT_STATUS', value => l_ext_status); if 0 == l_ext_status then Insert Into sec_mgr.logit Values ('Success: '||l_pkgown||'.'||l_pkgnm||'.'||l_procnm|| ' by '||l_current_user); If l_current_user != 'TESTSCHEMA' Then l_skip_action := DBMS_LOGSTDBY.SKIP_ACTION_APPLY; Else l_skip_action := DBMS_LOGSTDBY.SKIP_ACTION_SKIP; End If; End If; dbms_logstdby_context.set_context(name=>'SKIP_ACTION', value => l_skip_action); End skip_drop_policy; EXECUTE DBMS_LOGSTDBY.SKIP( - stmt => 'PL/SQL', - schema_name => 'SYS', - object_name => 'DBMS_RLS.DROP_POLICY', - proc_name => 'SEC_MGR.SKIP_DROP_POLICY' - use_like=> FALSE); use_like Allows pattern matching to isolate the tables that you want to skip on the logical standby database. The use_like parameter matches a portion of one character value to another by searching the first value for the pattern specified by the second, and calculates strings using characters as defined by the input character set. This parameter follows the same rules for pattern matching described in Oracle Database SQL Language Reference . esc Identifies an escape character (such as the character "/") that you can use for pattern matching. If the escape character appears in the pattern before the character "%" or "_" then Oracle interprets this character literally in the pattern, rather than as a special pattern matching character. See Oracle Database SQL Language Reference for more information about pattern matching. Usage Notes This procedure requires DBA privileges to execute. You cannot associate a stored procedure to be invoked in the context of a DML statement. For example, the following statement returns the ORA-16104: invalid Logical Standby option requested error: SQL> EXECUTE DBMS_LOGSTDBY.SKIP(- stmt => 'DML', - schema_name => 'HR', - object_name => 'EMPLOYEES', - proc_name => 'DML_HANDLER'); Also, if an event matches multiple rules either because of the use of wildcards while specifying the rule or because of a specification of overlapping rules. For example, if you specify a rule for the SCHEMA_DDL event for the HR.EMPLOYEES table, and a rule for the ALTER TABLE event for the HR.EMPLOYEES table, only one of the matching procedures will be invoked (alphabetically, by procedure). In the following code example, consider the following rules: SQL> EXECUTE DBMS_LOGSTDBY.SKIP( - stmt => 'SCHEMA_DDL', - schema_name => 'HR', - object_name => 'EMPLOYEES', - proc_name => 'SCHEMA_DDL_HANDLER'); SQL> EXECUTE DBMS_LOGSTDBY.SKIP( - stmt => 'ALTER TABLE', - schema_name => 'HR', - object_name => 'EMPLOYEES', - proc_name => 'TABLE_ALTER_HANDLER'); On encountering an ALTER TABLE statement, the schema_ddl_handler procedure will be invoked because its name will be at the top of an alphabetically sorted list of procedures that are relevant to the statement.Collisions on a rule set because of a specification containing wildcard entries are resolved in a similar fashion. For example, the rules in the following example will result in the empddl_handler procedure being invoked upon encountering the ALTER TABLE HR.EMPLOYEES ADD COLUMN RATING NUMBER statement: SQL> EXECUTE DBMS_LOGSTDBY.SKIP(- stmt => 'ALTER TABLE', - schema_name => 'HR', - object_name => 'EMP%', - proc_name => 'EMPDDL_HANDLER'); SQL> EXECUTE DBMS_LOGSTDBY.SKIP( - stmt => 'ALTER TABLE', - schema_name => 'HR', - object_name => 'EMPLOYEES', - proc_name => 'EMPLOYEE_DDL_HANDLER'); Use the SKIP procedure with caution, particularly when skipping DDL statements. If a CREATE TABLE statement is skipped, for example, you must also specify other DDL statements that refer to that table in the SKIP procedure. Otherwise, the statements will fail and cause an exception. When this happens, SQL Apply stops running. Before calling the SKIP procedure, SQL Apply must be halted. Do this by issuing an ALTER DATABASE STOP LOGICAL STANDBY APPLY statement. Once all desired filters have been specified, issue an ALTER DATABASE START LOGICAL STANDBY APPLY IMMEDIATE statement to start SQL Apply using the new filter settings. See the UNSKIP procedure for information about reversing (undoing) the settings of the SKIP procedure. For USER statements, the SCHEMA_NAME parameter will be the user and specify '%' for the OBJECT_NAME parameter. If the PROC_NAME parameter is supplied, it must already exist in DBA_PROCEDURES and it must execute with DEFINER rights. If the procedure is declared with INVOKER rights, the ORA-1031: insufficient privileges message will be returned. If the procedure returns a REPLACEMENT statement, the REPLACEMENT statement will be executed using the SYSTEM and OBJECT privileges of the owner of the procedure. The PL/SQL block of a SKIP procedure cannot contain transaction control statements (for example, COMMIT , ROLLBACK , SAVEPOINT , and SET CONSTRAINT ) unless the block is declared to be an autonomous transaction. Skip Statement Options Table 102-15 lists the supported values for the stmt parameter of the SKIP procedure. The left column of the table lists the keywords that may be used to identify the set of SQL statements to the right of the keyword. In addition, any of the SQL statements listed in the sys.audit_actions table (shown in the right column of Table 102-15 ) are also valid values. Note that keywords are generally defined by database object. Table 102-15 Supported Values for the stmt Parameter Keyword Associated SQL Statements There is no keyword for this group of SQL statements. GRANT REVOKE ANALYZE TABLE ANALYZE INDEX ANALYZE CLUSTER CLUSTER AUDIT CLUSTER CREATE CLUSTER DROP CLUSTER TRUNCATE CLUSTER CONTAINER See " Skipping Containers " CONTEXT CREATE CONTEXT DROP CONTEXT DATABASE LINK CREATE DATABASE LINK CREATE PUBLIC DATABASE LINK DROP DATABASE LINK DROP PUBLIC DATABASE LINK DIMENSION ALTER DIMENSION CREATE DIMENSION DROP DIMENSION DIRECTORY Foot 1 CREATE DIRECTORY DROP DIRECTORY DML Includes DML statements on a table (for example: INSERT , UPDATE , and DELETE ) INDEX ALTER INDEX CREATE INDEX DROP INDEX NON_SCHEMA_DDL All DDL that does not pertain to a particular schema Note: SCHEMA_NAME and OBJECT_NAME must be null PL/SQL Foot 2 Execute Oracle-supplied package. PROCEDURE Foot 3 ALTER FUNCTION ALTER PACKAGE ALTER PACKAGE BODY ALTER PROCEDURE CREATE FUNCTION CREATE LIBRARY CREATE PACKAGE CREATE PACKAGE BODY CREATE PROCEDURE DROP FUNCTION DROP LIBRARY DROP PACKAGE DROP PACKAGE BODY DROP PROCEDURE PROFILE ALTER PROFILE CREATE PROFILE DROP PROFILE ROLE ALTER ROLE CREATE ROLE DROP ROLE SET ROLE ROLLBACK STATEMENT ALTER ROLLBACK SEGMENT CREATE ROLLBACK SEGMENT DROP ROLLBACK SEGMENT SCHEMA_DDL All DDL statements that create, modify, or drop schema objects (for example: tables, indexes, and columns) Note: SCHEMA_NAME and OBJECT_NAME must not be null SEQUENCE ALTER SEQUENCE CREATE SEQUENCE DROP SEQUENCE SYNONYM CREATE PUBLIC SYNONYM CREATE SYNONYM DROP PUBLIC SYNONYM DROP SYNONYM SYSTEM AUDIT AUDIT SQL_statements NOAUDIT SQL_statements TABLE CREATE TABLE ALTER TABLE DROP TABLE TRUNCATE TABLE TABLESPACE CREATE TABLESPACE DROP TABLESPACE ALTER TABLESPACE TRIGGER ALTER TRIGGER CREATE TRIGGER DISABLE ALL TRIGGERS DISABLE TRIGGER DROP TRIGGER ENABLE ALL TRIGGERS ENABLE TRIGGER TYPE ALTER TYPE ALTER TYPE BODY CREATE TYPE CREATE TYPE BODY DROP TYPE DROP TYPE BODY USER ALTER USER CREATE USER DROP USER VIEW CREATE VIEW DROP VIEW VIEW CREATE VIEW DROP VIEW Footnote 1 All directory objects are owned by SYS , but for the purpose of filtering them with a skip directive the schema should be specified as '%'". Footnote 2 See Oracle Data Guard Concepts and Administration for information about supported packages. Footnote 3 Java schema objects (sources, classes, and resources) are considered the same as procedure for purposes of skipping (ignoring) SQL statements.