---
id: 19c__DBMS_LOGSTDBY.SKIP_ERROR
name: DBMS_LOGSTDBY.SKIP_ERROR
object_type: plsql_procedure
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_LOGSTDBY
tags: [dbms_logstdby]
source_file: DBMS_LOGSTDBY.html
---

# DBMS_LOGSTDBY.SKIP_ERROR

The SKIP_ERROR procedure specifies the action to take when a logical standby database detects an error.

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_LOGSTDBY.SKIP_ERROR (
     stmt                      IN VARCHAR2,
     schema_name               IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL,
     object_name               IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL,
     proc_name                 IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL,
     use_like                  IN BOOLEAN  DEFAULT NULL,
     esc                       IN CHAR1    DEFAULT NULL);
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Mode | Description |
|-----------|------|------|-------------|
| stmt | VARCHAR2 | IN | Either a keyword that identifies a set of SQL statements or a specific SQL statement. The use of keywords simplifies configuration because keywords, generally defined by the database object, identify all SQL statements that operate on the specified object. Table 102-15 shows a list of keywords and the equivalent SQL statements, either of which is a valid value for this parameter. |
| schema_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | The name of one or more schemas (wildcards are permitted) associated with the SQL statements identified by the stmt parameter. If not applicable, this value must be set to NULL . |
| object_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | The name of one or more objects (wildcards are permitted) associated with the SQL statements identified by the stmt . If not applicable, this value must be set to NULL . |
| proc_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Name of a stored procedure to call when SQL Apply encounters an error and determines a particular statement matches the filter defined by the stmt , schema_name , and object_name parameters. Specify the procedure in the following format: '"schema"."package"."procedure"' This procedure returns an error message that directs SQL Apply to perform one of the following actions: Silently skip the error and continue with SQL Apply Replace the error message that would have been created with a custom one, and stop SQL Apply Do nothing, causing SQL Apply to stop and the original error message to be logged The procedure registered with SQL Apply does not take any parameters. The context associated with LSBY_APPLY_CONTEXT can be used to retrieve all relevant information related to the error. See the DBMS_LOGSTDBY_CONTEXT package for a list of all parameters associated with LSBY_APPLY_CONTEXT . The parameters of interest for procedures registered with SKIP_ERROR are CONTAINER_NAME , STATEMENT , STATEMENT_TYPE , SCHEMA , NAME , XIDUSN , XIDSLT , XIDSQN , ERROR and NEW_ERROR . |
| use_like | BOOLEAN | IN | Allows pattern matching to isolate the tables that you want to skip on the logical standby database. The use_like parameter matches a portion of one character value to another by searching the first value for the pattern specified by the second, and calculates strings using characters as defined by the input character set. This parameter follows the same rules for pattern matching described in Oracle Database SQL Language Reference . |
| esc | CHAR1 | IN | Identifies an escape character (such as the characters "%" or "_") that you can use for pattern matching. If the escape character appears in the pattern before the character "%" or "_" then Oracle interprets this character literally in the pattern, rather than as a special pattern matching character. |

## Usage Notes

Upon encountering an error, the logical standby database uses the criteria contained in this procedure to determine a course of action. The default action when a match is found is to skip the error and continue with applying changes. However, if a procedure is supplied, then SKIP_ERROR can take other actions depending on the situation. It can do nothing, which causes SQL Apply to stop, or it can change the error message text and stop SQL Apply, or it can actually skip the error. Syntax DBMS_LOGSTDBY.SKIP_ERROR ( stmt IN VARCHAR2, schema_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, object_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, proc_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, use_like IN BOOLEAN DEFAULT NULL, esc IN CHAR1 DEFAULT NULL); Parameters Table 102-17 SKIP_ERROR Procedure Parameters Parameter Description stmt Either a keyword that identifies a set of SQL statements or a specific SQL statement. The use of keywords simplifies configuration because keywords, generally defined by the database object, identify all SQL statements that operate on the specified object. Table 102-15 shows a list of keywords and the equivalent SQL statements, either of which is a valid value for this parameter. schema_name The name of one or more schemas (wildcards are permitted) associated with the SQL statements identified by the stmt parameter. If not applicable, this value must be set to NULL . object_name The name of one or more objects (wildcards are permitted) associated with the SQL statements identified by the stmt . If not applicable, this value must be set to NULL . proc_name Name of a stored procedure to call when SQL Apply encounters an error and determines a particular statement matches the filter defined by the stmt , schema_name , and object_name parameters. Specify the procedure in the following format: '"schema"."package"."procedure"' This procedure returns an error message that directs SQL Apply to perform one of the following actions: Silently skip the error and continue with SQL Apply Replace the error message that would have been created with a custom one, and stop SQL Apply Do nothing, causing SQL Apply to stop and the original error message to be logged The procedure registered with SQL Apply does not take any parameters. The context associated with LSBY_APPLY_CONTEXT can be used to retrieve all relevant information related to the error. See the DBMS_LOGSTDBY_CONTEXT package for a list of all parameters associated with LSBY_APPLY_CONTEXT . The parameters of interest for procedures registered with SKIP_ERROR are CONTAINER_NAME , STATEMENT , STATEMENT_TYPE , SCHEMA , NAME , XIDUSN , XIDSLT , XIDSQN , ERROR and NEW_ERROR . use_like Allows pattern matching to isolate the tables that you want to skip on the logical standby database. The use_like parameter matches a portion of one character value to another by searching the first value for the pattern specified by the second, and calculates strings using characters as defined by the input character set. This parameter follows the same rules for pattern matching described in Oracle Database SQL Language Reference . esc Identifies an escape character (such as the characters "%" or "_") that you can use for pattern matching. If the escape character appears in the pattern before the character "%" or "_" then Oracle interprets this character literally in the pattern, rather than as a special pattern matching character. Usage Notes A stored procedure provided to the SKIP_ERROR procedure is called when SQL Apply encounters an error that could shut down the application of redo logs to the standby database. Running this stored procedure affects the error being written in the STATUS column of the DBA_LOGSTDBY_EVENTS table. The STATUS_CODE column remains unchanged. If the stored procedure is to have no effect, that is, apply will be stopped, then the NEW_ERROR is written to the events table. To truly have no effect, set NEW_ERROR to ERROR in the procedure. If the stored procedure requires that a shutdown be avoided, then you must set NEW_ERROR to NULL . This procedure requires DBA privileges to execute. For USER statements, the SCHEMA_NAME parameter will be the user and you should specify '%' for the OBJECT_NAME parameter. If the PROC_NAME parameter is specified, it must already exist in DBA_PROCEDURES and it must execute with DEFINERS rights. If the procedure is declared with INVOKERS rights, the ORA-1031: insufficient privileges message will be returned. The PL/SQL block of a SKIP_ERROR procedure cannot contain transaction control statements (for example: COMMIT , ROLLBACK , SAVEPOINT , and SET CONSTRAINT ) unless the block is declared to be an autonomous transaction using the following syntax: PRAGMA AUTONOMOUS_TRANSACTION Exceptions Table 102-18 SKIP_ERROR Procedure Exceptions Exception Description ORA-01031 Insufficient privileges: Procedure used INVOKER rights Procedure needs DBA privileges ORA-16103 Logical Standby apply must be stopped to allow this operation ORA-16104 invalid Logical Standby option requested ORA-16236 Logical Standby metadata operation in progress