---
id: 19c__DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM.ADD_SUBSET_RULES
name: DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM.ADD_SUBSET_RULES
object_type: plsql_procedure
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM
tags: [dbms_xstream_adm]
source_file: DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM.html
---

# DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM.ADD_SUBSET_RULES

This procedure adds rules to an XStream client.

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM.ADD_SUBSET_RULES(
   table_name             IN   VARCHAR2,
   dml_condition          IN   VARCHAR2,
   streams_type           IN   VARCHAR2 DEFAULT 'apply',
   streams_name           IN   VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL,
   queue_name             IN   VARCHAR2 DEFAULT 'streams_queue',
   include_tagged_lcr     IN   BOOLEAN  DEFAULT FALSE,
   source_database        IN   VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL,
   insert_rule_name       OUT  VARCHAR2,
   update_rule_name       OUT  VARCHAR2,
   delete_rule_name       OUT  VARCHAR2,
   source_root_name       IN  VARCHAR2  DEFAULT NULL,
   source_container_name  IN  VARCHAR2  DEFAULT NULL);

DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM.ADD_SUBSET_RULES(
   table_name             IN   VARCHAR2,
   dml_condition          IN   VARCHAR2,
   streams_type           IN   VARCHAR2 DEFAULT 'apply',
   streams_name           IN   VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL,
   queue_name             IN   VARCHAR2 DEFAULT 'streams_queue',
   include_tagged_lcr     IN   BOOLEAN  DEFAULT FALSE,
   source_database        IN   VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL,
   source_root_name       IN  VARCHAR2  DEFAULT NULL,
   source_container_name  IN  VARCHAR2  DEFAULT NULL);
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Mode | Description |
|-----------|------|------|-------------|
| table_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | The name of the table specified as [ schema_name .] object_name . For example, hr.employees . If the schema is not specified, then the current user is the default. The specified table must exist in the same database as the capture process or apply process. Also, the specified table cannot have any LOB, LONG , LONG RAW , or XMLType columns currently or in the future. |
| dml_condition | VARCHAR2 | IN | The subset condition. Specify this condition similar to the way you specify conditions in a WHERE clause in SQL. For example, to specify rows in the hr.employees table where the salary is greater than 4000 and the job_id is SA_MAN , enter the following as the condition: ' salary > 4000 and job_id = ''SA_MAN'' ' Note: The quotation marks in the preceding example are all single quotation marks. |
| streams_type | VARCHAR2 | IN | The type of XStream client: Specify capture for a capture process. Specify apply for an apply process. |
| streams_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | The name of the capture process or apply process. Do not specify an owner. If NULL , if streams_type is capture , and if one relevant capture process for the queue exists, then the procedure uses the relevant XStream client. If no relevant XStream client exists for the queue, then the procedure creates an XStream client automatically with a system-generated name. If NULL and multiple XStream clients of the specified streams_type for the queue exist, then the procedure raises an error. If NULL , if streams_type is apply , and if one relevant apply process exists, then the procedure uses the relevant apply process. The relevant apply process is identified in one of the following ways: If one existing apply process has the source database specified in source_database and uses the queue specified in queue_name , then the procedure uses this apply process. If source_database is NULL and one existing apply process is using the queue specified in queue_name , then the procedure uses this apply process. If NULL and no relevant apply process exists, then the procedure creates an apply process automatically with a system-generated name. If NULL and multiple relevant apply processes exist, then the procedure raises an error. Each apply process must have a unique name. |
| queue_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | The name of the local queue, specified as [ schema_name .] queue_name . The current database must contain the queue, and the queue must be ANYDATA type. For example, to specify a queue named streams_queue in the strmadmin schema, enter strmadmin.streams_queue for this parameter. If the schema is not specified, then the current user is the default. For capture process rules, this is the queue into which a capture process enqueues LCRs. For outbound server rules, this is the queue from which the outbound server dequeues LCRs. For inbound server rules, this is the queue into which an inbound server enqueues error transactions. |
| include_tagged_lcr | BOOLEAN | IN | If TRUE , then the XStream client performs its action regardless of the tag: A redo entry is always considered for capture by a capture process, regardless of whether the redo entry has a non- NULL tag. An LCR is always considered for apply by an apply process, regardless of whether redo entry or LCR has a non- NULL tag. If FALSE , then an XStream client performs its action only when the tag is NULL : A redo entry is considered for capture by a capture process only when the redo entry contains a NULL tag. An LCR is considered for apply by an apply process only if the LCR contains a NULL tag. A setting of FALSE is often specified in update-anywhere configurations to avoid sending a change back to its source database. |
| source_database | VARCHAR2 | IN | The global name of the source database. If NULL , then the procedure does not add a condition regarding the source database to the generated rules. For capture process rules, specify NULL or the global name of the local database if you are creating a capture process locally at the source database. If you are adding rules to a downstream capture process rule set at a downstream database, then specify the source database of the changes that will be captured. For apply process rules, specify the source database of the changes that will be applied by the apply process. The source database is the database where the changes originated. If an apply process applies captured LCRs, then the apply process can apply LCRs from only one capture process at one source database. In a CDB, specify the global name of the container to which the rules pertain. The container can be the root or a PDB. For example, mycdb.example.com or hrpdb.example.com . See Oracle Database XStream Guide for more information about setting this parameter in a CDB. If you do not include the domain name, then the procedure appends it to the database name automatically. For example, if you specify DBS1 and the domain is .NET , then the procedure specifies DBS1.NET automatically. |
| insert_rule_name | VARCHAR2 | OUT | Contains the system-generated INSERT rule name. This rule handles inserts and updates that must be converted into inserts. |
| update_rule_name | VARCHAR2 | OUT | Contains the system-generated UPDATE rule name. This rule handles updates that remain updates. |
| delete_rule_name | VARCHAR2 | OUT | Contains the system-generated DELETE rule name. This rule handles deletes and updates that must be converted into deletes |
| source_root_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | The global name of the root in the source CDB. For example, mycdb.example.com . If this parameter is NULL , then the global name of the root in the local CDB is used. If you are configuring downstream capture, then this parameter must be a non- NULL value, and it must specify the global name of the root in the remote source CDB. See Oracle Database XStream Guide for more information about setting this parameter in a CDB. If you do not include the domain name, then the procedure appends it to the database name automatically. For example, if you specify DBS1 and the domain is EXAMPLE.COM , then the procedure specifies DBS1.EXAMPLE.COM automatically. Note: This parameter only applies to a CDB. |
| source_container_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | The short name of the source container. The container can be the root or a PDB. For example, CDB$ROOT or hrpdb . See Oracle Database XStream Guide for more information about setting this parameter in a CDB. Note: This parameter only applies to a CDB. |

## Usage Notes

It adds rules to a rule set of one of the following types of XStream clients: When the streams_type parameter is set to capture , this procedure adds capture process rules for capturing changes to a subset of rows in a specified table. This procedure creates the specified capture process if it does not exist. When the streams_type parameter is set to apply and the streams_name parameter specifies the name of an apply process, outbound server, or inbound server, this procedure adds apply rules for applying logical change records (LCRs) that contain changes to a subset of rows in a specified table. The rules can specify that the LCRs must be from a particular source database. This procedure creates an apply process if no apply process, outbound server, or inbound server exists with the specified streams_name . This procedure can add rules to an outbound server or inbound server, but it cannot create an outbound server or inbound server. This procedure is overloaded. One version of this procedure contains three OUT parameters, and the other does not. Syntax DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM.ADD_SUBSET_RULES( table_name IN VARCHAR2, dml_condition IN VARCHAR2, streams_type IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT 'apply', streams_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, queue_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT 'streams_queue', include_tagged_lcr IN BOOLEAN DEFAULT FALSE, source_database IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, insert_rule_name OUT VARCHAR2, update_rule_name OUT VARCHAR2, delete_rule_name OUT VARCHAR2, source_root_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, source_container_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL); DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM.ADD_SUBSET_RULES( table_name IN VARCHAR2, dml_condition IN VARCHAR2, streams_type IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT 'apply', streams_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, queue_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT 'streams_queue', include_tagged_lcr IN BOOLEAN DEFAULT FALSE, source_database IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, source_root_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, source_container_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL); Parameters Table 217-10 ADD_SUBSET_RULES Procedure Parameters Parameter Description table_name The name of the table specified as [ schema_name .] object_name . For example, hr.employees . If the schema is not specified, then the current user is the default. The specified table must exist in the same database as the capture process or apply process. Also, the specified table cannot have any LOB, LONG , LONG RAW , or XMLType columns currently or in the future. dml_condition The subset condition. Specify this condition similar to the way you specify conditions in a WHERE clause in SQL. For example, to specify rows in the hr.employees table where the salary is greater than 4000 and the job_id is SA_MAN , enter the following as the condition: ' salary > 4000 and job_id = ''SA_MAN'' ' Note: The quotation marks in the preceding example are all single quotation marks. streams_type The type of XStream client: Specify capture for a capture process. Specify apply for an apply process. streams_name The name of the capture process or apply process. Do not specify an owner. If NULL , if streams_type is capture , and if one relevant capture process for the queue exists, then the procedure uses the relevant XStream client. If no relevant XStream client exists for the queue, then the procedure creates an XStream client automatically with a system-generated name. If NULL and multiple XStream clients of the specified streams_type for the queue exist, then the procedure raises an error. If NULL , if streams_type is apply , and if one relevant apply process exists, then the procedure uses the relevant apply process. The relevant apply process is identified in one of the following ways: If one existing apply process has the source database specified in source_database and uses the queue specified in queue_name , then the procedure uses this apply process. If source_database is NULL and one existing apply process is using the queue specified in queue_name , then the procedure uses this apply process. If NULL and no relevant apply process exists, then the procedure creates an apply process automatically with a system-generated name. If NULL and multiple relevant apply processes exist, then the procedure raises an error. Each apply process must have a unique name. queue_name The name of the local queue, specified as [ schema_name .] queue_name . The current database must contain the queue, and the queue must be ANYDATA type. For example, to specify a queue named streams_queue in the strmadmin schema, enter strmadmin.streams_queue for this parameter. If the schema is not specified, then the current user is the default. For capture process rules, this is the queue into which a capture process enqueues LCRs. For outbound server rules, this is the queue from which the outbound server dequeues LCRs. For inbound server rules, this is the queue into which an inbound server enqueues error transactions. include_tagged_lcr If TRUE , then the XStream client performs its action regardless of the tag: A redo entry is always considered for capture by a capture process, regardless of whether the redo entry has a non- NULL tag. An LCR is always considered for apply by an apply process, regardless of whether redo entry or LCR has a non- NULL tag. If FALSE , then an XStream client performs its action only when the tag is NULL : A redo entry is considered for capture by a capture process only when the redo entry contains a NULL tag. An LCR is considered for apply by an apply process only if the LCR contains a NULL tag. A setting of FALSE is often specified in update-anywhere configurations to avoid sending a change back to its source database. source_database The global name of the source database. If NULL , then the procedure does not add a condition regarding the source database to the generated rules. For capture process rules, specify NULL or the global name of the local database if you are creating a capture process locally at the source database. If you are adding rules to a downstream capture process rule set at a downstream database, then specify the source database of the changes that will be captured. For apply process rules, specify the source database of the changes that will be applied by the apply process. The source database is the database where the changes originated. If an apply process applies captured LCRs, then the apply process can apply LCRs from only one capture process at one source database. In a CDB, specify the global name of the container to which the rules pertain. The container can be the root or a PDB. For example, mycdb.example.com or hrpdb.example.com . See Oracle Database XStream Guide for more information about setting this parameter in a CDB. If you do not include the domain name, then the procedure appends it to the database name automatically. For example, if you specify DBS1 and the domain is .NET , then the procedure specifies DBS1.NET automatically. insert_rule_name Contains the system-generated INSERT rule name. This rule handles inserts and updates that must be converted into inserts. update_rule_name Contains the system-generated UPDATE rule name. This rule handles updates that remain updates. delete_rule_name Contains the system-generated DELETE rule name. This rule handles deletes and updates that must be converted into deletes source_root_name The global name of the root in the source CDB. For example, mycdb.example.com . If this parameter is NULL , then the global name of the root in the local CDB is used. If you are configuring downstream capture, then this parameter must be a non- NULL value, and it must specify the global name of the root in the remote source CDB. See Oracle Database XStream Guide for more information about setting this parameter in a CDB. If you do not include the domain name, then the procedure appends it to the database name automatically. For example, if you specify DBS1 and the domain is EXAMPLE.COM , then the procedure specifies DBS1.EXAMPLE.COM automatically. Note: This parameter only applies to a CDB. source_container_name The short name of the source container. The container can be the root or a PDB. For example, CDB$ROOT or hrpdb . See Oracle Database XStream Guide for more information about setting this parameter in a CDB. Note: This parameter only applies to a CDB. Usage Notes Running this procedure generates three rules for the specified capture process or apply process: one for INSERT statements, one for UPDATE statements, and one for DELETE statements. For INSERT and DELETE statements, only DML changes that satisfy the condition specified for the dml_condition parameter are captured or applied. For UPDATE statements, the following variations are possible: If both the new and old values in a DML change satisfy the specified dml_condition , then the DML change is captured or applied without any changes. If neither the new or old values in a DML change satisfy the specified dml_condition , then the DML change is not captured or applied. If the old values for a DML change satisfy the specified dml_condition , but the new values do not, then the DML change is converted into a delete. If the new values for a DML change satisfy the specified dml_condition , but the old values do not, then the DML change is converted to an insert. When an update is converted into an insert or a delete, it is called row migration. A capture process or apply process uses the rules for filtering. If the XStream client does not have a positive rule set, then this procedure creates a positive rule set automatically, and adds the rules for the table to the positive rule set. A subset rule can be added to positive rule set only, not to a negative rule set. Other rules in an existing rule set for the process are not affected. Additional rules can be added using either the DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM package or the DBMS_RULE_ADM package. Rules for INSERT , UPDATE , and DELETE statements are created automatically when you run this procedure, and these rules are given a system-generated rule name. Each rule has a system-generated rule name that consists of the table name with a sequence number appended to it. The sequence number is used to avoid naming conflicts. If the table name plus the sequence number is too long, then the table name is truncated. The ADD_SUBSET_RULES procedure is overloaded, and the system-generated rule names for INSERT , UPDATE , and DELETE statements are returned. Note: Subset rules should only reside in positive rule sets. You should not add subset rules to negative rule sets. Doing so might have unpredictable results because row migration would not be performed on LCRs that are not discarded by the negative rule set. Note: Subset rules should only reside in positive rule sets. You should not add subset rules to negative rule sets. Doing so might have unpredictable results because row migration would not be performed on LCRs that are not discarded by the negative rule set.