---
id: 19c__DBMS_AUDIT_MGMT.SET_AUDIT_TRAIL_PROPERTY
name: DBMS_AUDIT_MGMT.SET_AUDIT_TRAIL_PROPERTY
object_type: plsql_procedure
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_AUDIT_MGMT
tags: [dbms_audit_mgmt]
source_file: DBMS_AUDIT_MGMT.html
---

# DBMS_AUDIT_MGMT.SET_AUDIT_TRAIL_PROPERTY

This procedure sets an audit trail property for the audit trail type that is specified.

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_AUDIT_MGMT.SET_AUDIT_TRAIL_PROPERTY(
   audit_trail_type            IN PLS_INTEGER,
   audit_trail_property        IN PLS_INTEGER,
   audit_trail_property_value  IN PLS_INTEGER) ;
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Mode | Description |
|-----------|------|------|-------------|
| audit_trail_type | PLS_INTEGER | IN | The audit trail type for which the property needs to be set. Audit trail types are listed in Table 27-1 |
| audit_trail_property | PLS_INTEGER | IN | The audit trail property that is being set. Audit trail properties are listed in Table 27-2 |
| audit_trail_property_value | PLS_INTEGER) | IN | The value of the property specified using audit_trail_property . The following are valid values for audit trail properties: OS_FILE_MAX_SIZE can have a minimum value of 1 and maximum value of 2000000. The default value is 10000. OS_FILE_MAX_SIZE is measured in kilobytes (KB). OS_FILE_MAX_AGE can have a minimum value of 1 and a maximum value of 497. The default value is 5. OS_FILE_MAX_AGE is measured in days. DB_DELETE_BATCH_SIZE can have a minimum value of 100 and a maximum value of 1000000. The default value is 10000. DB_DELETE_BATCH_SIZE is measured as the number of audit records that are deleted in one batch. FILE_DELETE_BATCH_SIZE can have a minimum value of 100 and a maximum value of 1000000. The default value is 1000. FILE_DELETE_BATCH_SIZE is measured as the number of audit files that are deleted in one batch. CLEANUP_INTERVAL can have a minimum value of 1 and a maximum value of 999. The default value is set using the INIT_CLEANUP Procedure . CLEANUP_INTERVAL is measured in hours. |

## Usage Notes

The procedure sets the properties OS_FILE_MAX_SIZE , OS_FILE_MAX_AGE , and FILE_DELETE_BATCH_SIZE for operating system (OS) and XML audit trail types. The OS_FILE_MAX_SIZE and OS_FILE_MAX_AGE properties determine the maximum size and age of an audit trail file before a new audit trail file gets created. The FILE_DELETE_BATCH_SIZE property specifies the number of audit trail files that are deleted in one batch. The procedure sets the properties DB_DELETE_BATCH_SIZE and CLEANUP_INTERVAL for the database audit trail type. DB_DELETE_BATCH_SIZE specifies the batch size in which records get deleted from audit trail tables. This ensures that if a cleanup operation gets interrupted midway, the process does not need to start afresh the next time it is invoked. This is because all batches before the last processed batch are already committed. The CLEANUP_INTERVAL specifies the frequency, in hours, with which the cleanup procedure is called. Syntax DBMS_AUDIT_MGMT.SET_AUDIT_TRAIL_PROPERTY( audit_trail_type IN PLS_INTEGER, audit_trail_property IN PLS_INTEGER, audit_trail_property_value IN PLS_INTEGER) ; Parameters Table 27-23 SET_AUDIT_TRAIL_PROPERTY Procedure Parameters Parameter Description audit_trail_type The audit trail type for which the property needs to be set. Audit trail types are listed in Table 27-1 audit_trail_property The audit trail property that is being set. Audit trail properties are listed in Table 27-2 audit_trail_property_value The value of the property specified using audit_trail_property . The following are valid values for audit trail properties: OS_FILE_MAX_SIZE can have a minimum value of 1 and maximum value of 2000000. The default value is 10000. OS_FILE_MAX_SIZE is measured in kilobytes (KB). OS_FILE_MAX_AGE can have a minimum value of 1 and a maximum value of 497. The default value is 5. OS_FILE_MAX_AGE is measured in days. DB_DELETE_BATCH_SIZE can have a minimum value of 100 and a maximum value of 1000000. The default value is 10000. DB_DELETE_BATCH_SIZE is measured as the number of audit records that are deleted in one batch. FILE_DELETE_BATCH_SIZE can have a minimum value of 100 and a maximum value of 1000000. The default value is 1000. FILE_DELETE_BATCH_SIZE is measured as the number of audit files that are deleted in one batch. CLEANUP_INTERVAL can have a minimum value of 1 and a maximum value of 999. The default value is set using the INIT_CLEANUP Procedure . CLEANUP_INTERVAL is measured in hours. Usage Notes The following usage notes apply: The audit trail properties for which you do not explicitly set values use their default values. If you have set both the OS_FILE_MAX_SIZE and OS_FILE_MAX_AGE properties for an operating system (OS) or XML audit trail type, then a new audit trail file gets created depending on which of these two limits is reached first. For example, let us take a scenario where OS_FILE_MAX_SIZE is 10000 and OS_FILE_MAX_AGE is 5. If the operating system audit file is already more than 5 days old and has a size of 9000 KB, then a new audit file is opened. This is because one of the limits has been reached. The DB_DELETE_BATCH_SIZE property needs to be individually set for the AUDIT_TRAIL_AUD_STD and AUDIT_TRAIL_FGA_STD audit trail types. You cannot set this property collectively using the AUDIT_TRAIL_DB_STD and AUDIT_TRAIL_ALL audit trail types. The DB_DELETE_BATCH_SIZE property enables you to control the number of audit records that are deleted in one batch. Setting a large value for this parameter requires increased allocation for the undo log space. The FILE_DELETE_BATCH_SIZE property needs to be individually set for the AUDIT_TRAIL_OS and AUDIT_TRAIL_XML audit trail types. You cannot set this property collectively using the AUDIT_TRAIL_FILES and AUDIT_TRAIL_ALL audit trail types. The FILE_DELETE_BATCH_SIZE property enables you to control the number of audit files that are deleted in one batch. Setting a very large value may engage the GEN0 background process for a long time. In Oracle Database Standard Edition, you can only associate the tablespace for unified auditing once. You should perform this association before you generate any audit records for the unified audit trail. The default tablespace is SYSAUX . After you have associated the tablespace, you cannot modify it on the Standard Edition because the partitioning feature is not supported in the Standard Edition. Examples The following example calls the SET_AUDIT_TRAIL_PROPERTY procedure to set the OS_FILE_MAX_SIZE property for the operating system (OS) audit trail. It sets this property value to 102400. This means that a new audit file gets created every time the current audit file size reaches 100 MB. BEGIN DBMS_AUDIT_MGMT.SET_AUDIT_TRAIL_PROPERTY( audit_trail_type => DBMS_AUDIT_MGMT.AUDIT_TRAIL_OS, audit_trail_property => DBMS_AUDIT_MGMT.OS_FILE_MAX_SIZE, audit_trail_property_value => 102400 /* 100MB*/ ); END; The following example calls the SET_AUDIT_TRAIL_PROPERTY procedure to set the OS_FILE_MAX_AGE property for the operating system (OS) audit trail. It sets this property value to 5. This means that a new audit file gets created every sixth day. BEGIN DBMS_AUDIT_MGMT.SET_AUDIT_TRAIL_PROPERTY( audit_trail_type => DBMS_AUDIT_MGMT.AUDIT_TRAIL_OS, audit_trail_property => DBMS_AUDIT_MGMT.OS_FILE_MAX_AGE, audit_trail_property_value => 5 /* days */); END; The following example calls the SET_AUDIT_TRAIL_PROPERTY procedure to set the DB_DELETE_BATCH_SIZE property for the AUDIT_TRAIL_AUD_STD audit trail. It sets this property value to 100000. This means that during a cleanup operation, audit records are deleted from the SYS.AUD$ table in batches of size 100000. BEGIN DBMS_AUDIT_MGMT.SET_AUDIT_TRAIL_PROPERTY( audit_trail_type => DBMS_AUDIT_MGMT.AUDIT_TRAIL_AUD_STD, audit_trail_property => DBMS_AUDIT_MGMT.DB_DELETE_BATCH_SIZE, audit_trail_property_value => 100000 /* delete batch size */); END;