---
id: 19c__DBMS_SCHEDULER.GET_SCHEDULER_ATTRIBUTE
name: DBMS_SCHEDULER.GET_SCHEDULER_ATTRIBUTE
object_type: plsql_procedure
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_SCHEDULER
tags: [dbms_scheduler]
source_file: DBMS_SCHEDULER.html
---

# DBMS_SCHEDULER.GET_SCHEDULER_ATTRIBUTE

This procedure retrieves the value of a Scheduler attribute.

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_SCHEDULER.GET_SCHEDULER_ATTRIBUTE (
   attribute      IN VARCHAR2,
   value          OUT VARCHAR2);
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Mode | Description |
|-----------|------|------|-------------|
| attribute | VARCHAR2 | IN | The name of the attribute |
| value | VARCHAR2) | OUT | The existing value of the attribute |

## Usage Notes

Syntax DBMS_SCHEDULER.GET_SCHEDULER_ATTRIBUTE ( attribute IN VARCHAR2, value OUT VARCHAR2); Parameters Table 151-68 GET_SCHEDULER_ATTRIBUTE Procedure Parameters Parameter Description attribute The name of the attribute value The existing value of the attribute Usage Notes To run GET_SCHEDULER_ATTRIBUTE , you must have the MANAGE SCHEDULER privilege. Table 151-69 lists the Scheduler attributes that you can retrieve. For more detail on these attributes, see Table 151-101 and the section "Configuring the Scheduler" in Oracle Database Administrator's Guide . Table 151-69 Scheduler Attributes Retrievable with GET_SCHEDULER_ATTRIBUTE Scheduler Attribute Description current_open_window Name of the currently open window default_timezone Default time zone used by the Scheduler for repeat intervals and windows email_sender The default e-mail address of the sender for job state e-mail notifications email_server The SMTP server address that the Scheduler uses to send e-mail notifications for job state events. E-mail notifications cannot be sent if this attribute is NULL . event_expiry_time Time in seconds before an event generated by the Scheduler and enqueued onto the Scheduler event queue expires. May be NULL . log_history Retention period in days for job and window logs. The range of valid values is 0 through 1000000. max_job_slave_processes This Scheduler attribute is not used.