---
id: 19c__DBMS_SQLPA.EXECUTE_ANALYSIS_TASK
name: DBMS_SQLPA.EXECUTE_ANALYSIS_TASK
object_type: plsql_function
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_SQLPA
tags: [dbms_sqlpa]
source_file: DBMS_SQLPA.html
---

# DBMS_SQLPA.EXECUTE_ANALYSIS_TASK

This function and procedure executes a previously created analysis task, the function version returning the new execution name.

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_SQLPA.EXECUTE_ANALYSIS_TASK(
   task_name         IN VARCHAR2,
   execution_type    IN VARCHAR2               := 'test execute',
   execution_name    IN VARCHAR2               := NULL,
   execution_params  IN dbms_advisor.argList   := NULL,
   execution_desc    IN VARCHAR2               := NULL)
 RETURN VARCHAR2;
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Mode | Description |
|-----------|------|------|-------------|
| task_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Identifier of the task to execute |
| execution_type | VARCHAR2 | IN | Type of the action to perform by the function. If NULL it will default to the value of the DEFAULT_EXECUTION_TYPE parameter. Possible values are: [TEST] EXECUTE - test-execute every SQL statement and collect its execution plans and execution statistics. The resulting plans and statistics will be stored in the advisor framework. This is default. EXPLAIN PLAN - generate explain plan for every statement in the SQL workload. This is similar to the EXPLAIN PLAN command. The resulting plans will be stored in the advisor framework in association with the task. COMPARE [PERFORMANCE] - analyze and compare two versions of SQL performance data. The performance data is generated by test-executing or generating explain plan of the SQL statements. Use this option when two executions of type EXPLAIN_PLAN or TEST_EXECUTE already exist in the task CONVERT SQLSET - used to read the statistics captured in a SQL Tuning Set and model them as a task execution. This can be used when you wish to avoid executing the SQL statements because valid data for the experiment already exists in the SQL Tuning Set. |
| execution_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | A name to qualify and identify an execution. If not specified, it will be generated by the advisor and returned by function. |
| execution_params | dbms_advisor.argList | IN | List of parameters (name, value) for the specified execution. The execution parameters have effect only on the execution for which they are specified. They will override the values for the parameters stored in the task (set through the SET_ANALYSIS_DEFAULT_PARAMETER Procedures ). |
| execution_desc | VARCHAR2 | IN | A 256-length string describing the execution |

**Returns:** `VARCHAR2`

## Usage Notes

Syntax DBMS_SQLPA.EXECUTE_ANALYSIS_TASK( task_name IN VARCHAR2, execution_type IN VARCHAR2 := 'test execute', execution_name IN VARCHAR2 := NULL, execution_params IN dbms_advisor.argList := NULL, execution_desc IN VARCHAR2 := NULL) RETURN VARCHAR2; DBMS_SQLPA.EXECUTE_ANALYSIS_TASK( task_name IN VARCHAR2, execution_type IN VARCHAR2 := 'test execute', execution_name IN VARCHAR2 := NULL, execution_params IN dbms_advisor.argList := NULL, execution_desc IN VARCHAR2 := NULL); Parameters Table 166-5 EXECUTE_ANALYSIS_TASK Function & Procedure Parameters Parameter Description task_name Identifier of the task to execute execution_type Type of the action to perform by the function. If NULL it will default to the value of the DEFAULT_EXECUTION_TYPE parameter. Possible values are: [TEST] EXECUTE - test-execute every SQL statement and collect its execution plans and execution statistics. The resulting plans and statistics will be stored in the advisor framework. This is default. EXPLAIN PLAN - generate explain plan for every statement in the SQL workload. This is similar to the EXPLAIN PLAN command. The resulting plans will be stored in the advisor framework in association with the task. COMPARE [PERFORMANCE] - analyze and compare two versions of SQL performance data. The performance data is generated by test-executing or generating explain plan of the SQL statements. Use this option when two executions of type EXPLAIN_PLAN or TEST_EXECUTE already exist in the task CONVERT SQLSET - used to read the statistics captured in a SQL Tuning Set and model them as a task execution. This can be used when you wish to avoid executing the SQL statements because valid data for the experiment already exists in the SQL Tuning Set. execution_name A name to qualify and identify an execution. If not specified, it will be generated by the advisor and returned by function. execution_params List of parameters (name, value) for the specified execution. The execution parameters have effect only on the execution for which they are specified. They will override the values for the parameters stored in the task (set through the SET_ANALYSIS_DEFAULT_PARAMETER Procedures ). execution_desc A 256-length string describing the execution Usage Notes SQL performance analyzer task can be executed multiples times without having to reset it. For example, when a task is created to perform a change impact analysis on a SQL workload, the created task has to be executed before making any change in the system environment to build a version of the workload that will be used as a reference for performance analysis. Once the change has been made, a second execution is required to build the post-change version of the workload. Finally, the task has to be executed a third time to let the advisor analyze and compare the performance of the workload in both versions. Examples 1. Create a task with a purpose of change impact analysis EXEC :tname := DBMS_SQLPA.CREATE_ANALYSIS_TASK( sqlset_name => 'my_sts'); 2. Make baseline or the before change execution EXEC DBMS_SQLPA.EXECUTE_ANALYSIS_TASK( task_name => :tname, execution_type => 'test execute', execution_name => 'before_change'); 3. Make change ... 4. Make the after change version of the workload performance EXEC DBMS_SQLPA.EXECUTE_ANALYSIS_TASK( task_name => :tname, - execution_type => 'test execute', execution_name => 'after_change') 5. Compare the two versions of the workload By default we always compare the results of the two last executions. The SQL Performance Analyzer uses the elapsed_time as a default metric for comparison. Here we are changing it to buffer_gets instead. EXEC DBMS_SQLPA.SET_ANALYSIS_TASK_PARAMETER( :tname,'comparison_metric', 'buffer_gets'); EXEC DBMS_SQLPA.EXECUTE_ANALYSIS_TASK( task_name => :tname, - execution_type => 'compare performance', - execution_name => 'after_change'); Use the following call if you would like to explicitly specify the two executions to compare as well as the comparison metric to use. EXEC DBMS_SQLPA.EXECUTE_ANALYSIS_TASK( task_name => :tname, - execution_type => 'compare performance', execution_params => dbms_advisor.arglist( 'execution_name1', 'before_change', 'execution_name2', 'after_change', 'comparison_metric', 'buffer_gets'));