---
id: 19c__DBMS_DATAPUMP.METADATA_TRANSFORM
name: DBMS_DATAPUMP.METADATA_TRANSFORM
object_type: plsql_procedure
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_DATAPUMP
tags: [dbms_datapump]
source_file: DBMS_DATAPUMP.html
---

# DBMS_DATAPUMP.METADATA_TRANSFORM

This procedure specifies transformations to be applied to objects as they are processed in the specified job.

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_DATAPUMP.METADATA_TRANSFORM (
   handle      IN NUMBER,
   name        IN VARCHAR2,
   value       IN VARCHAR2,
   object_type IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL);
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Mode | Description |
|-----------|------|------|-------------|
| handle | NUMBER | IN | The handle for the current job. The current session must have previously attached to the handle through a call to the OPEN function. |
| name | VARCHAR2 | IN | The name of the transformation. See Table 49-19 for descriptions of the available transforms. |
| value | VARCHAR2 | IN | The value of the parameter for the transform |
| object_type | VARCHAR2 | IN | Designates the object type to which the transform applies. The list of object types supported for each mode are contained in the DATABASE_EXPORT_OBJECTS , SCHEMA_EXPORT_OBJECTS , TABLE_EXPORT_OBJECTS , and TABLESPACE_EXPORT_OBJECTS catalog views. By default, the transform applies to all applicable objects within the job. The object_type parameter allows a caller to specify different transform parameters for different object types within a job. Transforms that explicitly specify an object type override transforms that apply to all object types. |

## Usage Notes

Syntax DBMS_DATAPUMP.METADATA_TRANSFORM ( handle IN NUMBER, name IN VARCHAR2, value IN VARCHAR2, object_type IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL); DBMS_DATAPUMP.METADATA_TRANSFORM ( handle IN NUMBER, name IN VARCHAR2, value IN NUMBER, object_type IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL); Parameters Table 49-18 METADATA_TRANSFORM Procedure Parameters Parameter Description handle The handle for the current job. The current session must have previously attached to the handle through a call to the OPEN function. name The name of the transformation. See Table 49-19 for descriptions of the available transforms. value The value of the parameter for the transform object_type Designates the object type to which the transform applies. The list of object types supported for each mode are contained in the DATABASE_EXPORT_OBJECTS , SCHEMA_EXPORT_OBJECTS , TABLE_EXPORT_OBJECTS , and TABLESPACE_EXPORT_OBJECTS catalog views. By default, the transform applies to all applicable objects within the job. The object_type parameter allows a caller to specify different transform parameters for different object types within a job. Transforms that explicitly specify an object type override transforms that apply to all object types. Table 49-19 describes the transforms provided by the METADATA_TRANSFORM procedure. Table 49-19 Transforms Provided by the METADATA_TRANFORM Procedure Name Datatype Object Type Meaning DISABLE_ARCHIVE_LOGGING NUMBER TABLE INDEX Specifies whether to disable archive logging for specified object types during import. A value of zero ( FALSE ) is the default. It specifies that archive logging will take place. This is the default behavior if this transform parameter is not specified. A non-zero ( TRUE ) value disables archive logging for the specified object types before data is loaded during import. If no object type is specified, then archive logging is disabled for both TABLE and INDEX object types. All other object types processed during data pump import are logged. Note: If the database is in FORCE LOGGING mode, then the DISABLE_ARCHIVE_LOGGING transform does not disable logging when indexes and tables are created. INMEMORY NUMBER TABLE TABLESPACE MATERIALIZED VIEWS The INMEMORY transform is related to the In-Memory Column Store (IM column store), an optional area in the SGA that stores whole tables, table partitions, and individual columns in a compressed columnar format. If a non-zero value ( TRUE ) is specified on import, then Data Pump generates an IM clause that preserves the IM setting those objects had at export time. This is the default. If a value of zero ( FALSE ) is specified on import, then Data Pump does not include an IM clause for any objects. Note : The INMEMORY transform is available only in Oracle Database 12 c Release 1 (12.1.0.2) or higher. INMEMORY_CLAUSE TEXT TABLE TABLESPACE MATERIALIZED VIEWS The INMEMORY_CLAUSE transform is related to the In-Memory Column Store (IM column store), an optional area in the SGA that stores whole tables, table partitions, and individual columns in a compressed columnar format. When you specify this transform, Data Pump uses the contents of the string as the IM clause for all objects being imported that have an IM clause in their DDL. This transform is useful when you want to override the IM clause for an object in the dump file. Note : The INMEMORY_CLAUSE transform is available only in Oracle Database 12 c Release (12.1.0.2) or higher. LOB_STORAGE TEXT TABLE Specifies the storage type to use for LOB segments. The options are as follows: SECUREFILE - LOB storage is returned as SECUREFILE BASICFILE - LOB storage is returned as BASICFILE DEFAULT - The keyword ( SECUREFILE or BASICFILE ) is omitted in the LOB STORE AS clause. NO_CHANGE - LOB segments are created with the same storage they had in the source database. This is the default. Specifying this transform changes the LOB storage for all tables in the job, including tables that provide storage for materialized views. OID NUMBER TYPE TABLE If zero, inhibits the assignment of the exported OID during type or table creation. Instead, a new OID will be assigned. Use of this transform on Object Tables will cause breakage in REF columns that point to the table. Defaults to 1. PCTSPACE NUMBER TABLE INDEX TABLESPACE Specifies a percentage multiplier used to alter extent allocations and data file sizes. Used to shrink large tablespaces for testing purposes. Defaults to 100. SEGMENT_ATTRIBUTES NUMBER TABLE, INDEX If nonzero ( TRUE ), emit storage segment parameters. Defaults to 1. SEGMENT_CREATION NUMBER TABLE If nonzero ( TRUE ), the SQL SEGMENT CREATION clause is added to the CREATE TABLE statement. That is, the CREATE TABLE statement will explicitly say either SEGMENT CREATION DEFERRED or SEGMENT CREATION IMMEDIATE . If the value is FALSE , then the SEGMENT CREATION clause is omitted from the CREATE TABLE statement. Set this parameter to FALSE to use the default segment creation attributes for the table(s) being loaded. Defaults to nonzero ( TRUE ). STORAGE NUMBER TABLE If nonzero (TRUE) , emit storage clause. (Ignored if SEGMENT_ATTRIBUTES is zero .) Defaults to nonzero ( TRUE) . TABLE_COMPRESSION_CLAUSE TEXT TABLE Specifies a table compression clause (for example, COMPRESS BASIC ) to use when the table is created. Specify NONE to omit the table compression clause. The table will have the default compression for the tablespace. Specifying this transform changes the compression type for all tables in the job, including tables that provide storage for materialized views. Exceptions INVALID_HANDLE . The specified handle is not attached to a Data Pump job. INVALID_ARGVAL . This message can indicate any of the following: The mode is transportable, which doesn't support transforms. The job's mode does not include the specified object_type . The transform has already been specified for the specified value and object_type . INVALID_OPERATION . Transforms are only supported for SQL_FILE and Import operations. The job's operation was Export which does not support the use of metadata transforms. INVALID_STATE . The user called METADATA_TRANSFORM after the job had started (that is, the job was not in the defining state). INCONSISTENT_ARGS . There was no value supplied or it was of the wrong datatype for the transform. PRIVILEGE_ERROR . A nonprivileged user attempted to do a REMAP_SCHEMA to a different user's schema or a REMAP_DATAFILE . SUCCESS_WITH_INFO . The procedure succeeded, but further information is available through the GET_STATUS procedure. NO_SUCH_JOB . The specified job does not exist. Usage Notes The METADATA_TRANSFORM procedure is only supported for Import and SQL_FILE operations. It enables you to apply commonly desired, predefined transformations to the definition of objects as part of the transfer. If you need transforms that are not supported within this procedure, you should do a preliminary SQL_FILE operation to produce a SQL script corresponding to the dump file set. By editing the DDL directly and then executing it, you can produce any transformations that you need. Transforms for the DataPump API are a subset of the transforms implemented by the DBMS_METADATA . SET_TRANSFORM_PARAMETER API. Multiple transforms can be defined for a single job. However, each transform defined must be unique according its parameters. That is, two transforms cannot specify conflicting or redundant transformations.