---
id: 19c__DBMS_SCHEDULER.DISABLE
name: DBMS_SCHEDULER.DISABLE
object_type: plsql_procedure
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_SCHEDULER
tags: [dbms_scheduler]
source_file: DBMS_SCHEDULER.html
---

# DBMS_SCHEDULER.DISABLE

This procedure disables a program, job, chain, window, database destination, external destination, file watcher, or group. When an object is disabled, its enabled attribute is set to FALSE .

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_SCHEDULER.DISABLE (
   name              IN VARCHAR2,
   force             IN BOOLEAN DEFAULT FALSE,
   commit_semantics  IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT 'STOP_ON_FIRST_ERROR');
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Mode | Description |
|-----------|------|------|-------------|
| name | VARCHAR2 | IN | The name of the object being disabled. Can be a comma-delimited list. If a job class name is specified, then all the jobs in the job class are disabled. The job class is not disabled. If a group name is specified, then the group is disabled, but the enabled state of the group members is unaffected. |
| force | BOOLEAN | IN | If TRUE , objects are disabled even if other objects depend on them. See the usage notes for more information. |
| commit_semantics | VARCHAR2 | IN | The commit semantics. The following types are supported: STOP_ON_FIRST_ERROR : The procedure returns on the first error and the previous disable operations that were successful are committed to disk. This is the default. TRANSACTIONAL : The procedure returns on the first error and everything that happened before that error is rolled back. This type is only supported when disabling a job or a list of jobs. In addition, this type is not supported when force is set to TRUE . ABSORB_ERRORS : The procedure tries to absorb any errors and disable the rest of the jobs and commits all the disable operations that were successful. If errors occur, you can query the view SCHEDULER_BATCH_ERRORS for details. This type is only supported when disabling a job or a list of jobs. |

## Usage Notes

Syntax DBMS_SCHEDULER.DISABLE ( name IN VARCHAR2, force IN BOOLEAN DEFAULT FALSE, commit_semantics IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT 'STOP_ON_FIRST_ERROR'); Parameters Table 151-42 DISABLE Procedure Parameters Parameter Description name The name of the object being disabled. Can be a comma-delimited list. If a job class name is specified, then all the jobs in the job class are disabled. The job class is not disabled. If a group name is specified, then the group is disabled, but the enabled state of the group members is unaffected. force If TRUE , objects are disabled even if other objects depend on them. See the usage notes for more information. commit_semantics The commit semantics. The following types are supported: STOP_ON_FIRST_ERROR : The procedure returns on the first error and the previous disable operations that were successful are committed to disk. This is the default. TRANSACTIONAL : The procedure returns on the first error and everything that happened before that error is rolled back. This type is only supported when disabling a job or a list of jobs. In addition, this type is not supported when force is set to TRUE . ABSORB_ERRORS : The procedure tries to absorb any errors and disable the rest of the jobs and commits all the disable operations that were successful. If errors occur, you can query the view SCHEDULER_BATCH_ERRORS for details. This type is only supported when disabling a job or a list of jobs. Usage Notes Windows must be preceded by SYS . Disabling an object that is already disabled does not generate an error. The purpose of the force option is to point out dependencies. No dependent objects are altered. To run DISABLE for a window or a group of type WINDOW , you must have the MANAGE SCHEDULER privilege. You can use DISABLE with any schema except the SYS schema. Jobs Disabling a job means that, although the metadata of the job is there, it should not run and the job coordinator will not pick up these jobs for processing. When a job is disabled, its state in the job queue is changed to disabled . If force is set to FALSE and the job is currently running, an error is returned. If force is set to TRUE , the job is disabled, but the currently running instance is allowed to finish. For jobs with multiple destinations, you cannot disable a child job at a specific destination. Instead, you can disable the destination. Programs When a program is disabled, the status is changed to disabled. A disabled program implies that, although the metadata is still there, jobs that point to this program cannot run. If force is set to FALSE , the program must not be referenced by any job, otherwise an error will occur. If force is set to TRUE , those jobs that point to the program will not be disabled, however, they will fail at runtime because their program will not be valid. Running jobs that point to the program are not affected by the DISABLE call and are allowed to continue No arguments that pertain to the program are affected when the program is disabled. File Watchers If force is set to FALSE , the file watcher must not be referenced by any job, otherwise an error will occur. If you force disabling a file watcher, jobs that depend on it become disabled. Windows This means that the window will not open, however, the metadata of the window is still there, so it can be reenabled. If force is set to FALSE , the window must not be open or referenced by any job otherwise an error occurs. If force is set to TRUE , disabling a window that is open will succeed but the window will not be closed. It will prevent the window from opening in the future until it is reenabled. When the window is disabled, those jobs that have the window as their schedule will not be disabled. Window Groups When a group of type WINDOW is disabled, jobs (other than a running job) that have the window group as their schedule will not run when the member windows open. However, a job that has one of the window group members as its schedule still runs. The metadata of the window group is still there, so it can be reenabled. Note that the members of the window group will still open. If force is set to FALSE , the window group must not have any members that are open or referenced by any job, otherwise an error will occur. If force is set to TRUE : The window group is disabled and the open window will be not closed or disabled. It will be allowed to continue to its end. The window group is disabled but those jobs that have the window group as their schedule will not be disabled. Job Chains When a chain is disabled, the metadata for the chain is still there, but jobs that point to it will not be able to be run. This allows changes to the chain to be made safely without the risk of having an incompletely specified chain run.If force is set to FALSE , the chain must not be referenced by any job, otherwise an error will occur.If force is set to TRUE , those jobs that point to the chain will not be disabled, however, they will fail at runtime.Running jobs that point to this chain are not affected by the DISABLE call and are allowed to complete. Database Destinations When you disable a database destination: The destination is skipped when a multiple destination job runs. If all destinations are disabled for a job, the Scheduler generates an error when it attempts to run the job. The REFS_ENABLED column in *_SCHEDULER_JOB_DESTS is set to FALSE for all jobs that reference the database destination. External Destinations When you disable an external destination: Dependent database destinations remain enabled, but the Scheduler generates an error when it attempts to run a job with a database destination that depends on the external destination. The REFS_ENABLED column in *_SCHEDULER_JOB_DESTS is set to FALSE for all external jobs that reference the external destination and for all database jobs with a database destination that depends on the external destination. Groups If you disable an external destination group or database destination group, the Scheduler generates an error when it attempts to run a job that names the group as its destination.