---
id: 19c__DBMS_CUBE.CREATE_MVIEW
name: DBMS_CUBE.CREATE_MVIEW
object_type: plsql_function
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_CUBE
tags: [dbms_cube]
source_file: DBMS_CUBE.html
---

# DBMS_CUBE.CREATE_MVIEW

This function creates a cube materialized view from the definition of a relational materialized view.

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_CUBE.CREATE_MVIEW (
          mvowner        IN  VARCHAR2,
          mvname         IN  VARCHAR2,
          sam_parameters IN  CLOB  DEFAULT NULL)
     RETURN VARCHAR2;
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Mode | Description |
|-----------|------|------|-------------|
| mvowner | VARCHAR2 | IN | Owner of the relational materialized view. |
| mvname | VARCHAR2 | IN | Name of the relational materialized view. For restrictions, see " Requirements for the Relational Materialized View " . A single cube materialized view can replace many of the relational materialized views for a table. Choose the materialized view that has the lowest levels of the dimension hierarchies that you want represented in the cube materialized view. |
| sam_parameters | CLOB | IN | Parameters in the form ' parameter1 = value1 , parameter2 = value2 ,...'. See " SQL Aggregation Management Parameters " . |

**Returns:** `VARCHAR2`

## Usage Notes

Syntax DBMS_CUBE.CREATE_MVIEW ( mvowner IN VARCHAR2, mvname IN VARCHAR2, sam_parameters IN CLOB DEFAULT NULL) RETURN VARCHAR2; Parameters Table 44-6 CREATE_MVIEW Function Parameters Parameter Description mvowner Owner of the relational materialized view. mvname Name of the relational materialized view. For restrictions, see " Requirements for the Relational Materialized View " . A single cube materialized view can replace many of the relational materialized views for a table. Choose the materialized view that has the lowest levels of the dimension hierarchies that you want represented in the cube materialized view. sam_parameters Parameters in the form ' parameter1 = value1 , parameter2 = value2 ,...'. See " SQL Aggregation Management Parameters " . SQL Aggregation Management Parameters The CREATE_MVIEW and DERIVE_FROM_MVIEW functions use the SQL aggregation management (SAM) parameters described in Table 44-7 . Some parameters support the development of cubes with advanced analytics. Other parameters support the development of Java applications. The default settings are appropriate for cube materialized views that are direct replacements for relational materialized views. Table 44-7 SQL Aggregation Management Parameters Parameter Description ADDTOPS Adds a top level and a level member to every dimension hierarchy in the cube. If the associated relational dimension has no hierarchy, then a dimension hierarchy is created. TRUE : Creates levels named ALL_ dimension with level members All_ dimension . (Default) FALSE : Creates only the hierarchies and levels identified by the relational dimensions. ADDUNIQUEKEYPREFIX Controls the creation of dimension keys. TRUE : Creates cube dimension keys by concatenating the level name with the relational dimension key. This practice assures that the dimension keys are unique across all levels, such as CITY_NEW_YORK and STATE_NEW_YORK . (Default) FALSE : Uses the relational dimension keys as cube dimension keys. ATRMAPTYPE Specifies whether attributes are mapped by hierarchy levels, dimension levels, or both. HIER_LEVEL : Maps attributes to the levels of a particular dimension hierarchy. (Default) DIM_LEVEL : Maps attributes to the levels of the dimension regardless of hierarchy. BOTH : Maps attributes to both dimension and hierarchy levels. AUTO : Maps attributes to the levels of the dimension for a star schema and to the levels of a particular dimension hierarchy for a snowflake schema. AWNAME Provides the name of the analytic workspace that owns the cube. Choose a simple database object name of 1 to 30 bytes. The default name is fact_tablename _AW n . BUILD Specifies whether a data refresh will immediately follow creation of the cube materialized view. IMMEDIATE : Refreshes immediately. DEFERRED : Does not perform a data refresh. (Default) Note : Only the CREATE_MVIEW function uses this parameter. CUBEMVOPTION Controls validation and creation of a cube materialized view. Regardless of this setting, the function creates an analytic workspace containing a cube and its related cube dimensions. COMPLETE_REFRESH : Creates a complete refresh cube materialized view (full update). FAST_REFRESH : Creates a fast refresh materialized view (incremental update). REWRITE_READY : Runs validation checks for a rewrite cube materialized view, but does not create it. REWRITE : Creates a rewrite cube materialized view. REWRITE_WITH_ATTRIBUTES : Creates a rewrite cube materialized view that includes columns with dimension attributes, resulting in faster query response times. (Default) Note : The following settings do not create a cube materialized view. Use Analytic Workspace Manager to drop an analytic workspace that does not have a cube materialized view. You can use the DROP_MVIEW procedure to delete an analytic workspace only when it supports a cube materialized view. NONE : Does not create a cube materialized view. COMPLETE_REFRESH_READY : Runs validation checks for a complete refresh cube materialized view, but does not create it. FAST_REFRESH_READY : Runs validation checks for fast refresh, but does not create the cube materialized view. CUBENAME Provides the name of the cube derived from the relational materialized view. Choose simple database object name of 1 to 30 bytes. The default name is fact_tablename _C n . DIMJAVABINDVARS Supports access by Java programs to the XML document. TRUE : Generates an XML template that uses Java bind variable notation for the names of dimensions. No XML validation is performed. You cannot use the IMPORT_XML procedure to create a cube using this template. FALSE : Generates an XML template that does not support Java bind variables. (Default) DISABLEQRW Controls disabling of query rewrite on the source relational materialized view. TRUE : Issues an ALTER MATERIALIZED VIEW mview_name DISABLE QUERY REWRITE command. FALSE : No action. Note : Only the CREATE_MVIEW function with BUILD=IMMEDIATE uses this parameter. EXPORTXML Exports the XML that defines the dimensional objects to a file, which you specify as dir/filename . Both the directory and the file name are case sensitive. dir : Name of a database directory. filename : The name of the file, typically given an XML filename extension. FILTERPARTITIONANCESTORLEVELS Controls the generation of aggregate values above the partitioning level of a partitioned cube. TRUE : Removes levels above the partitioning level from the cube. Requests for summary values above the partitioning level are solved by SQL. FALSE : All levels are retained in the cube. Requests for summary values are solved by OLAP. (Default) LOGDEST Directs and stores log messages. By default, the messages are not available. SERVEROUT : Sends messages to server output (typically the screen), which is suitable when working interactively such as in SQL*Plus or SQL Developer. TRACEFILE : Sends messages to the session trace file. PARTITIONOPTION Controls partitioning of the cube. NONE : Prevents partitioning. DEFAULT : Allows the Sparsity Advisor to determine whether partitioning is needed and how to partition the cube. (Default) FORCE : Partitions the cube even when the Sparsity Advisor recommends against it. The Sparsity Advisor identifies the best dimension, hierarchy, and level to use for partitioning. dimension.hierarchy.level : Partitions the cube using the specified dimension, hierarchy, and level. POPULATELINEAGE Controls the appearance of attributes in a cube materialized view. TRUE : Includes all dimension attributes in the cube materialized view. (Default) FALSE : Omits all dimension attributes from the cube materialized view. PRECOMPUTE Identifies a percentage of the data that is aggregated and stored. The remaining values are calculated as required by queries during the session. precompute_percentage [: precompute_top_percentage ] Specify the top percentage for partitioned cubes. The default value is 35:0, which specifies precomputing 35% of the bottom partition and 0% of the top partition. If the cube is not partitioned, then the second number is ignored. REMAPCOMPOSITEKEYS Controls how multicolumn keys are rendered in the cube. TRUE : Creates a unique key attribute whose values are concatenated string expressions with an underscore between the column values. For example, the value BOSTON_MA_USA might be an expression produced from a multicolumn key composed of CITY , STATE , and COUNTRY columns. In addition, an attribute is created for each individual column to store the relational keys. (Default) FALSE : Creates a unique key attribute for each column. RENDERINGMODE Controls whether a loss in fidelity between the relational materialized view and the cube materialized view results in a warning message or an exception. See " Requirements for the Relational Materialized View " . LOOSE : Losses are noted in the optional logs generated by the CREATE_MVIEW Function and the DERIVE_FROM_MVIEW Function . No exceptions are raised. (Default) STRICT : Any loss in fidelity raises an exception so that no XML template is created. SEEFILTERS Controls whether conditions in the WHERE clause of the relational materialized view's defining query are retained or ignored. TRUE : Renders valid conditions in the XML template. (Default) FALSE : Ignores all conditions. UNIQUENAMES Controls whether top level dimensional objects have unique names. Cross namespace conflicts may occur because dimensional objects have different namespaces than relational objects. TRUE : Modifies all relational names when they are rendered in the cube.(Default) FALSE : Duplicates relational names in the cube unless a naming conflict is detected. In that case, a unique name is created. UNKNOWNKEYASDIM Controls handling of simple columns with no levels or hierarchies in the GROUP BY clause of the relational materialized view's defining query. TRUE : Renders a simple column without a relational dimension as a cube dimension with no levels or hierarchies. FALSE : Raises an exception when no relational dimension is found for the column. (Default) VALIDATEXML Controls whether the generated XML document is validated. TRUE : Validates the template using the VALIDATE_XML procedure. (Default) FALSE : No validation is done. Returns The name of the cube materialized view created by the function. Usage Notes See " Using SQL Aggregation Management "