---
id: 19c__DBMS_DATA_MINING.DEPRECATED
name: DBMS_DATA_MINING.DEPRECATED
object_type: plsql_subprogram
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_DATA_MINING
tags: [dbms_data_mining]
source_file: DBMS_DATA_MINING.html
---

# DBMS_DATA_MINING.DEPRECATED

This topic contains tables listing deprecated types.

## Syntax

```sql
(id               NUMBER,
 cluster_id       VARCHAR2(4000),
 record_count     NUMBER,
 parent           NUMBER,
 tree_level       NUMBER,
 dispersion       NUMBER,
 split_predicate  DM_PREDICATES,
 child            DM_CHILDREN,
 centroid         DM_CENTROIDS,
 histogram        DM_HISTOGRAMS,
 rule             DM_RULE)
```

## Usage Notes

The DBMS_DATA_MINING package defines object datatypes for storing information about model attributes. Most of these types are returned by the table functions GET _ n , where n identifies the type of information to return. These functions take a model name as input and return the requested information as a collection of rows. For a list of the GET functions, see " Summary of DBMS_DATA_MINING Subprograms " . All the table functions use pipelining, which causes each row of output to be materialized as it is read from model storage, without waiting for the generation of the complete table object. For more information on pipelined, parallel table functions, consult the Oracle Database PL/SQL Language Reference. Table 47-31 DBMS_DATA_MINING Summary of Deprecated Datatypes Datatype Description DM_CENTROID The centroid of a cluster. DM_CENTROIDS A collection of DM_CENTROID . A member of DM_CLUSTER . DM_CHILD A child node of a cluster. DM_CHILDREN A collection of DM_CHILD . A member of DM_CLUSTER . DM_CLUSTER A cluster. A cluster includes DM_PREDICATES , DM_CHILDREN , DM_CENTROIDS , and DM_HISTOGRAMS . It also includes a DM_RULE . See also, Table 47-33 . DM_CLUSTERS A collection of DM_CLUSTER . Returned by GET_MODEL_DETAILS_KM Function , GET_MODEL_DETAILS_OC Function , and GET_MODEL_DETAILS_EM Function . See also, Table 47-33 . DM_CONDITIONAL The conditional probability of an attribute in a Naive Bayes model. DM_CONDITIONALS A collection of DM_CONDITIONAL . Returned by GET_MODEL_DETAILS_NB Function . DM_COST_ELEMENT The actual and predicted values in a cost matrix. DM_COST_MATRIX A collection of DM_COST_ELEMENT . Returned by GET_MODEL_COST_MATRIX Function . DM_EM_COMPONENT A component of an Expectation Maximization model. DM_EM_COMPONENT_SET A collection of DM_EM_COMPONENT . Returned by GET_MODEL_DETAILS_EM_COMP Function . DM_EM_PROJECTION A projection of an Expectation Maximization model. DM_EM_PROJECTION_SET A collection of DM_EM_PROJECTION . Returned by GET_MODEL_DETAILS_EM_PROJ Function . DM_GLM_COEFF The coefficient and associated statistics of an attribute in a Generalized Linear Model. DM_GLM_COEFF_SET A collection of DM_GLM_COEFF . Returned by GET_MODEL_DETAILS_GLM Function . DM_HISTOGRAM_BIN A histogram associated with a cluster. DM_HISTOGRAMS A collection of DM_HISTOGRAM_BIN . A member of DM_CLUSTER . See also, Table 47-33 . DM_ITEM An item in an association rule. DM_ITEMS A collection of DM_ITEM . DM_ITEMSET A collection of DM_ITEMS . DM_ITEMSETS A collection of DM_ITEMSET . Returned by GET_FREQUENT_ITEMSETS Function . DM_MODEL_GLOBAL_DETAIL High-level statistics about a model. DM_MODEL_GLOBAL_DETAILS A collection of DM_MODEL_GLOBAL_DETAIL . Returned by GET_MODEL_DETAILS_GLOBAL Function . DM_NB_DETAIL Information about an attribute in a Naive Bayes model. DM_NB_DETAILS A collection of DM_DB_DETAIL . Returned by GET_MODEL_DETAILS_NB Function . DM_NMF_ATTRIBUTE An attribute in a feature of a Non-Negative Matrix Factorization model. DM_NMF_ATTRIBUTE_SET A collection of DM_NMF_ATTRIBUTE . A member of DM_NMF_FEATURE . DM_NMF_FEATURE A feature in a Non-Negative Matrix Factorization model. DM_NMF_FEATURE_SET A collection of DM_NMF_FEATURE . Returned by GET_MODEL_DETAILS_NMF Function . DM_PREDICATE Antecedent and consequent in a rule. DM_PREDICATES A collection of DM_PREDICATE . A member of DM_RULE and DM_CLUSTER . Predicates are returned by GET_ASSOCIATION_RULES Function , GET_MODEL_DETAILS_EM Function , GET_MODEL_DETAILS_KM Function , and GET_MODEL_DETAILS_OC Function . See also, Table 47-33 . DM_RANKED_ATTRIBUTE An attribute ranked by its importance in an Attribute Importance model. DM_RANKED_ATTRIBUTES A collection of DM_RANKED_ATTRIBUTE . Returned by GET_MODEL_DETAILS_AI Function . DM_RULE A rule that defines a conditional relationship. The rule can be one of the association rules returned by GET_ASSOCIATION_RULES Function , or it can be a rule associated with a cluster in the collection of clusters returned by GET_MODEL_DETAILS_KM Function and GET_MODEL_DETAILS_OC Function . See also, Table 47-33 . DM_RULES A collection of DM_RULE . Returned by GET_ASSOCIATION_RULES Function . See also, Table 47-33 . DM_SVD_MATRIX A factorized matrix S, V, or U returned by a Singular Value Decomposition model. DM_SVD_MATRIX_SET A collection of DM_SVD_MATRIX . Returned by GET_MODEL_DETAILS_SVD Function . DM_SVM_ATTRIBUTE The name, value, and coefficient of an attribute in a Support Vector Machine model. DM_SVM_ATTRIBUTE_SET A collection of DM_SVM_ATTRIBUTE . Returned by GET_MODEL_DETAILS_SVM Function . Also a member of DM_SVM_LINEAR_COEFF . DM_SVM_LINEAR_COEFF The linear coefficient of each attribute in a Support Vector Machine model. DM_SVM_LINEAR_COEFF_SET A collection of DM_SVM_LINEAR_COEFF . Returned by GET_MODEL_DETAILS_SVM Function for an SVM model built using the linear kernel. DM_TRANSFORM The transformation and reverse transformation expressions for an attribute. DM_TRANSFORMS A collection of DM_TRANSFORM . Returned by GET_MODEL_TRANSFORMATIONS Function . Return Values for Clustering Algorithms The table contains description of DM_CLUSTER return value columns, nested table columns, and rows. Table 47-32 DM_CLUSTER Return Values for Clustering Algorithms Return Value Description DM_CLUSTERS A set of rows of type DM_CLUSTER . The rows have the following columns: (id NUMBER, cluster_id VARCHAR2(4000), record_count NUMBER, parent NUMBER, tree_level NUMBER, dispersion NUMBER, split_predicate DM_PREDICATES, child DM_CHILDREN, centroid DM_CENTROIDS, histogram DM_HISTOGRAMS, rule DM_RULE) DM_PREDICATE The antecedent and consequent columns each return nested tables of type DM_PREDICATES . The rows, of type DM_PREDICATE , have the following columns: (attribute_name VARCHAR2(4000), attribute_subname VARCHAR2(4000), conditional_operator CHAR(2)/*=,<>,<,>,<=,>=*/, attribute_num_value NUMBER, attribute_str_value VARCHAR2(4000), attribute_support NUMBER, attribute_confidence NUMBER) DM_CLUSTER Fields The following table describes DM_CLUSTER fields. Table 47-33 DM_CLUSTER Fields Column Name Description id Cluster identifier cluster_id The ID of a cluster in the model record_count Specifies the number of records parent Parent ID tree_level Specifies the number of splits from the root dispersion A measure used to quantify whether a set of observed occurrences are dispersed compared to a standard statistical model. split_predicate The split_predicate column of DM_CLUSTER returns a nested table of type DM_PREDICATES . Each row, of type DM_PREDICATE , has the following columns: (attribute_name VARCHAR2(4000), attribute_subname VARCHAR2(4000), conditional_operator CHAR(2) /*=,<>,<,>,<=,>=*/, attribute_num_value NUMBER, attribute_str_value VARCHAR2(4000), attribute_support NUMBER, attribute_confidence NUMBER) Note: The Expectation Maximization algorithm uses all the fields except dispersion and split_predicate . child The child column of DM_CLUSTER returns a nested table of type DM_CHILDREN . The rows, of type DM_CHILD , have a single column of type NUMBER , which contains the identifiers of each child. centroid The centroid column of DM_CLUSTER returns a nested table of type DM_CENTROIDS . The rows, of type DM_CENTROID , have the following columns: (attribute_name VARCHAR2(4000), attribute_subname VARCHAR2(4000), mean NUMBER, mode_value VARCHAR2(4000), variance NUMBER) histogram The histogram column of DM_CLUSTER returns a nested table of type DM_HISTOGRAMS . The rows, of type DM_HISTOGRAM_BIN , have the following columns: (attribute_name VARCHAR2(4000), attribute_subname VARCHAR2(4000), bin_id NUMBER, lower_bound NUMBER, upper_bound NUMBER, label VARCHAR2(4000), count NUMBER) rule The rule column of DM_CLUSTER returns a single row of type DM_RULE . The columns are: (rule_id INTEGER, antecedent DM_PREDICATES, consequent DM_PREDICATES, rule_support NUMBER, rule_confidence NUMBER, rule_lift NUMBER, antecedent_support NUMBER, consequent_support NUMBER, number_of_items INTEGER) Usage Notes The table function pipes out rows of type DM_CLUSTER . For information on Data Mining datatypes and piped output from table functions, see " Datatypes " . For descriptions of predicates ( DM_PREDICATE ) and rules ( DM_RULE ), see GET_ASSOCIATION_RULES Function .