---
id: 19c__DBMS_LOGMNR.START_LOGMNR
name: DBMS_LOGMNR.START_LOGMNR
object_type: plsql_procedure
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_LOGMNR
tags: [dbms_logmnr]
source_file: DBMS_LOGMNR.html
---

# DBMS_LOGMNR.START_LOGMNR

This procedure starts LogMiner by loading the dictionary that LogMiner will use to translate internal schema object identifiers to names.

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_LOGMNR.START_LOGMNR ( 
   startScn           IN NUMBER default 0,
   endScn             IN NUMBER default 0,
   startTime          IN DATE default '01-jan-1988',
   endTime            IN DATE default '31-dec-2110',
   DictFileName       IN VARCHAR2 default '',
   Options            IN BINARY_INTEGER default 0 );
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Mode | Description |
|-----------|------|------|-------------|
| startScn | NUMBER | IN | Directs LogMiner to return only redo records with an SCN greater than or equal to the startScn specified. This fails if there is no redo log file containing the specified startScn value. (You can query the FILENAME , LOW_SCN, and NEXT_SCN columns in the V$LOGMNR_LOGS view for each redo log file to determine the range of SCN values contained in each redo log file.) |
| endScn | NUMBER | IN | Directs LogMiner to return only redo records with an SCN less than or equal to the endScn specified. If you specify an endScn value that is beyond the value in any redo log file, then LogMiner uses the greatest endScn value in the redo log file that contains the most recent changes. (You can query the FILENAME, LOW_SCN, and NEXT_SCN columns in the V$LOGMNR_LOGS view for each redo log file to determine the range of SCN values contained in each redo log file.) |
| startTime | DATE | IN | Directs LogMiner to return only redo records with a timestamp greater than or equal to the startTime specified. This fails if there is no redo log file containing the specified startTime value. (You can query the FILENAME , LOW_TIME, and HIGH_TIME columns in the V$LOGMNR_LOGS view for each redo log file to determine the range of time covered in each redo log file.) This parameter is ignored if startScn is specified. See the Usage Notes for additional information. |
| endTime | DATE | IN | Directs LogMiner to return only redo records with a timestamp less than or equal to the endTime specified. If you specify an endTime value that is beyond the value in any redo log file, then LogMiner will use the greatest endTime in the redo log file that contains the most recent changes. You can query the FILENAME, LOW_TIME, and HIGH_TIME columns in the V$LOGMNR_LOGS view for each redo log file to determine the range of time covered in each redo log file.) This parameter is ignored if endScn is specified. See the Usage Notes for additional information. |
| DictFileName | VARCHAR2 | IN | Specifies the flat file that contains the LogMiner dictionary. It is used to reconstruct SQL_REDO and SQL_UNDO columns in V$LOGMNR_CONTENTS , as well as to fully translate SEG_NAME , SEG_OWNER , SEG_TYPE_NAME, TABLE_NAME, and TABLE_SPACE columns. The fully qualified path name for the LogMiner dictionary file must be specified. (This file must have been created previously through the DBMS_LOGMNR_D . BUILD procedure.) You need to specify this parameter only if neither DICT_FROM_REDO_LOGS nor DICT_FROM_ONLINE_CATALOG is specified. |
| options | BINARY_INTEGER | IN | See Table 101-2 . |

## Usage Notes

In a CDB, the START_LOGMNR procedure must be called from the root database. You must have the LOGMINING administrative privilege to use this procedure. Note: The ability to create flat file dictionary dumps of pluggable databases (PDBs) is desupported in Oracle Database 21c. In previous releases, using a flat file dictionary was one means of mining the redo logs for the changes associated with a specific PDB whose data dictionary was contained within the flat file. This feature is now desupported. Starting with Oracle Database 21c, Oracle recommends that you call DBMS_LOGMNR.START_LOGMNR , and supply the system change number (SCN) or time range that you want to mine. The SCN or time range options of START_LOGMNR are enhanced to support mining of individual PDBs. Note: The ability to create flat file dictionary dumps of pluggable databases (PDBs) is desupported in Oracle Database 21c. In previous releases, using a flat file dictionary was one means of mining the redo logs for the changes associated with a specific PDB whose data dictionary was contained within the flat file. This feature is now desupported. Starting with Oracle Database 21c, Oracle recommends that you call DBMS_LOGMNR.START_LOGMNR , and supply the system change number (SCN) or time range that you want to mine. The SCN or time range options of START_LOGMNR are enhanced to support mining of individual PDBs. Syntax DBMS_LOGMNR.START_LOGMNR ( startScn IN NUMBER default 0, endScn IN NUMBER default 0, startTime IN DATE default '01-jan-1988', endTime IN DATE default '31-dec-2110', DictFileName IN VARCHAR2 default '', Options IN BINARY_INTEGER default 0 ); Parameters Table 101-15 START_LOGMNR Procedure Parameters Parameter Description startScn Directs LogMiner to return only redo records with an SCN greater than or equal to the startScn specified. This fails if there is no redo log file containing the specified startScn value. (You can query the FILENAME , LOW_SCN, and NEXT_SCN columns in the V$LOGMNR_LOGS view for each redo log file to determine the range of SCN values contained in each redo log file.) endScn Directs LogMiner to return only redo records with an SCN less than or equal to the endScn specified. If you specify an endScn value that is beyond the value in any redo log file, then LogMiner uses the greatest endScn value in the redo log file that contains the most recent changes. (You can query the FILENAME, LOW_SCN, and NEXT_SCN columns in the V$LOGMNR_LOGS view for each redo log file to determine the range of SCN values contained in each redo log file.) startTime Directs LogMiner to return only redo records with a timestamp greater than or equal to the startTime specified. This fails if there is no redo log file containing the specified startTime value. (You can query the FILENAME , LOW_TIME, and HIGH_TIME columns in the V$LOGMNR_LOGS view for each redo log file to determine the range of time covered in each redo log file.) This parameter is ignored if startScn is specified. See the Usage Notes for additional information. endTime Directs LogMiner to return only redo records with a timestamp less than or equal to the endTime specified. If you specify an endTime value that is beyond the value in any redo log file, then LogMiner will use the greatest endTime in the redo log file that contains the most recent changes. You can query the FILENAME, LOW_TIME, and HIGH_TIME columns in the V$LOGMNR_LOGS view for each redo log file to determine the range of time covered in each redo log file.) This parameter is ignored if endScn is specified. See the Usage Notes for additional information. DictFileName Specifies the flat file that contains the LogMiner dictionary. It is used to reconstruct SQL_REDO and SQL_UNDO columns in V$LOGMNR_CONTENTS , as well as to fully translate SEG_NAME , SEG_OWNER , SEG_TYPE_NAME, TABLE_NAME, and TABLE_SPACE columns. The fully qualified path name for the LogMiner dictionary file must be specified. (This file must have been created previously through the DBMS_LOGMNR_D . BUILD procedure.) You need to specify this parameter only if neither DICT_FROM_REDO_LOGS nor DICT_FROM_ONLINE_CATALOG is specified. options See Table 101-2 . Exceptions Table 101-16 START_LOGMNR Procedure Exceptions Exception Description ORA-01280 Internal error encountered. ORA-01281 startScn or endScn parameter value is not a valid SCN, or endScn is less than startScn . ORA-01282 value for the startTime parameter was greater than the value specified for the endTime parameter, or there was no redo log file that was compatible with the date range specified with the startTime and endTime parameters. ORA-01283 Options parameter specified is invalid. ORA-01284 LogMiner dictionary file specified in the DictFileName parameter has a full path length greater than 256 characters, or the file cannot be opened. ORA-01285 Error reading specified file. ORA-01291 Redo log files that are needed to satisfy the user's requested SCN or time range are missing. ORA-01292 No log file has been specified for the current LogMiner session. ORA-01293 Mounted database required for specified LogMiner options. ORA-01294 Error occurred while processing information in the specified dictionary file, possible corruption. ORA-01295 Specified LogMiner dictionary does not correspond to the database that produced the log files being analyzed. ORA-01296 Character set mismatch between specified LogMiner dictionary and log files. ORA-01297 Redo version mismatch between LogMiner dictionary and log files. ORA-01299 Specified LogMiner dictionary corresponds to a different database incarnation. ORA-01300 Writable database required for specified LogMiner options.