---
id: 19c__DBMS_CUBE.VALIDATE_XML
name: DBMS_CUBE.VALIDATE_XML
object_type: plsql_procedure
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_CUBE
tags: [dbms_cube]
source_file: DBMS_CUBE.html
---

# DBMS_CUBE.VALIDATE_XML

This procedure checks the XML to assure that it is valid without committing the results to the database. It does not create an analytic workspace.

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_CUBE.VALIDATE_XML
       (dirname               IN  VARCHAR2,
        filename              IN  VARCHAR2 ); 

DBMS_CUBE.VALIDATE_XML
       (in_xml                IN  CLOB );
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Mode | Description |
|-----------|------|------|-------------|
| dirname | VARCHAR2 | IN | The case-sensitive name of a database directory. |
| filename | VARCHAR2 | IN | The name of a file containing an XML template. |
| IN_XML | CLOB | IN | The name of a CLOB containing an XML template. |

## Usage Notes

Syntax DBMS_CUBE.VALIDATE_XML (dirname IN VARCHAR2, filename IN VARCHAR2 ); DBMS_CUBE.VALIDATE_XML (in_xml IN CLOB ); Parameters Table 44-15 VALIDATE_XML Procedure Parameters Parameter Description dirname The case-sensitive name of a database directory. filename The name of a file containing an XML template. IN_XML The name of a CLOB containing an XML template. Usage Notes You should always load a template into the same version and release of Oracle Database as the one used to generate the template. The XML may not be valid if it was generated by a different release of the software. Example This example reports a problem in the schema: EXECUTE dbms_cube.validate_xml('UPGRADE_DIR', 'MYGLOBAL.XML'); BEGIN dbms_cube.validate_xml('UPGRADE_DIR', 'MYGLOBAL.XML'); END; * ERROR at line 1: ORA-37162: OLAP error 'GLOBAL.PRICE_CUBE.$AW_ORGANIZATION': XOQ-01950: The AWCubeOrganization for cube "GLOBAL.PRICE_CUBE" contains multiple BuildSpecifications with the same name. 'GLOBAL.UNITS_CUBE.$AW_ORGANIZATION': XOQ-01950: The AWCubeOrganization for cube "GLOBAL.UNITS_CUBE" contains multiple BuildSpecifications with the same name. XOQ-01400: invalid metadata objects ORA-06512: at "SYS.DBMS_CUBE", line 411 ORA-06512: at "SYS.DBMS_CUBE", line 441 ORA-06512: at "SYS.DBMS_CUBE", line 501 ORA-06512: at "SYS.DBMS_CUBE", line 520 ORA-06512: at line 1 After the problems are corrected, the procedure reports no errors: EXECUTE dbms_cube.validate_xml('UPGRADE_DIR', 'MYGLOBAL.XML'); PL/SQL procedure successfully completed. This example loads an XML template into a temporary CLOB, then validates it. The script is named GLOBAL.XML , and it is located in a database directory named XML_DIR . DEFINE xml_file = 'GLOBAL.XML'; SET ECHO ON; SET SERVEROUT ON; DECLARE xml_file BFILE := bfilename('XML_DIR', '&xml_file'); in_xml CLOB; out_xml CLOB := NULL; dest_offset INTEGER := 1; src_offset INTEGER := 1; lang_context INTEGER := 0; warning INTEGER; BEGIN -- Setup the clob from a file DBMS_LOB.CREATETEMPORARY(in_xml, TRUE); DBMS_LOB.OPEN(in_xml, DBMS_LOB.LOB_READWRITE); DBMS_LOB.OPEN(xml_file, DBMS_LOB.FILE_READONLY); DBMS_LOB.LOADCLOBFROMFILE(in_xml, xml_file, DBMS_LOB.LOBMAXSIZE, dest_offset, src_offset, 0, lang_context, warning); -- Validate the xml DBMS_CUBE.VALIDATE_XML(in_xml); END; /