---
id: 19c__DBMS_SQLDIAG.EXPORT_SQL_TESTCASE
name: DBMS_SQLDIAG.EXPORT_SQL_TESTCASE
object_type: plsql_subprogram
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_SQLDIAG
tags: [dbms_sqldiag]
source_file: DBMS_SQLDIAG.html
---

# DBMS_SQLDIAG.EXPORT_SQL_TESTCASE

This procedure exports a SQL test case to a directory.

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_SQLDIAG.EXPORT_SQL_TESTCASE (
    directory                IN              VARCHAR2,
    sql_text                 IN              CLOB,
    user_name                IN              VARCHAR2  :=  NULL,
    bind_list                IN              sql_binds :=  NULL,
    exportEnvironment        IN              BOOLEAN   :=  TRUE,
    exportMetadata           IN              BOOLEAN   :=  TRUE,
    exportData               IN              BOOLEAN   :=  FALSE,
    exportPkgbody            IN              BOOLEAN   :=  FALSE,
    samplingPercent          IN              NUMBER    :=  100,
    ctrlOptions              IN              VARCHAR2  :=  NULL,
    timeLimit                IN              NUMBER    :=  0,
    testcase_name            IN              VARCHAR2  :=  NULL,
    testcase                 IN OUT NOCOPY   CLOB,
    preserveSchemaMapping    IN              BOOLEAN   :=  FALSE,
    version                  IN              VARCHAR2  :=  'COMPATIBLE');
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Mode | Description |
|-----------|------|------|-------------|
| directory | VARCHAR2 | IN | Directory to store the various generated files |
| sql_text | CLOB | IN | Text of the SQL statement to export |
| incident_id |  |  | Incident ID containing the offending SQL |
| sql_id |  |  | Identifier of the statement in the cursor cache |
| username |  |  | Name of the user schema to use to parse the SQL, defaults to SYS |
| bind_list | sql_binds | IN | List of bind values associated to the statement |
| exportEnvironment | BOOLEAN | IN | TRUE if the compilation environment should be exported |
| exportMetadata | BOOLEAN | IN | TRUE if the definition of the objects referenced in the SQL should be exported |
| exportData | BOOLEAN | IN | TRUE if the data of the objects referenced in the SQL should be exported |
| exportPkgbody | BOOLEAN | IN | TRUE if the body of the packages referenced in the SQL are exported |
| samplingPercent | NUMBER | IN | If is TRUE , specify the sampling percentage to use to create the dump file |
| ctrlOptions | VARCHAR2 | IN | Opaque control parameters. For example, to execute three times, set ctrlOptions with the following string: '<parameter name="mexec_count">3</parameter>' . name="capture” - BASIC (default) or WITH_RUNTIME_INFO . This parameter defines the mode of TCB capture. BASIC : runs as Oracle release 11 g TCB and captures all the information that is captured in that release as well as AWR reports, SQL monitor reports and parameter information. WITH_RUNTIME_INFO : TCB captures runtime information for the SQL, such as dynamic sampling data, list of binds, Dynamic Plan info, along with information captured under BASIC mode. Note this must be the same value as used in the IMPORT_SQL_TESTCASE Procedures . name="mexec_count” –Value is any positive number ( N ). This parameter tells TCB to execute the statement for N time and capture runtime info at end of each execution. name="stat_history_since” –Value is date. The object statistics history is exported using this parameter. Statistics history after date specified will be exported. name="compress” –This option is used to compress the SQL Test Case Builder output files into a zip file. The possible values are: YES NO The default value is NO . name="diag_event" –This option is used to specify the level of trace information to include in the SQL Test Case Builder output. The possible values are: ADS COMPILER SQLEXEC_LOW SQLEXEC_MEDIUM SQLEXEC_HIGH SQLEXEC_HIGHEST The default value is ADS + COMPILER . name="problem_type" –This option is used to assign an issue type for a SQL Test Case Builder test case. For example, if a test case is related to performance regression issue, then you can assign the value of PERFORMANCE to the problem_type option. The possible values are : PERFORMANCE WRONG_RESULTS COMPILATION_ERROR EXECUTION_ERROR The default value is PERFORMANCE . |
| timeLimit | NUMBER | IN | How much time should we spend exporting the SQL test case |
| testcaseName |  |  | An optional name for the SQL test case. This is used to prefix all the generated scripts |
| testcase | NOCOPY | IN OUT | Resulting testcase |
| preserveSchemaMapping | BOOLEAN | IN | TRUE if the schema (or schemas) are not re-mapped from the original environment to the test environment |
| version | VARCHAR2 | IN | Version of database objects to be extracted. This option is only valid for EXPORT . Database objects or attributes incompatible with the version will not be extracted. COMPATIBLE - (default) the version of the metadata corresponds to the database compatibility level and the compatibility release level for feature (as given in the V$COMPATIBILITY view). Database compatibility must be set to 9.2 or higher. LATEST - the version of the metadata that specifies the current database version. A specific database version. For example, if '10.0.0' , this cannot be lower than Oracle Database release 10.0.0. |

## Usage Notes

Syntax This variant has to be provided with the SQL information. DBMS_SQLDIAG.EXPORT_SQL_TESTCASE ( directory IN VARCHAR2, sql_text IN CLOB, user_name IN VARCHAR2 := NULL, bind_list IN sql_binds := NULL, exportEnvironment IN BOOLEAN := TRUE, exportMetadata IN BOOLEAN := TRUE, exportData IN BOOLEAN := FALSE, exportPkgbody IN BOOLEAN := FALSE, samplingPercent IN NUMBER := 100, ctrlOptions IN VARCHAR2 := NULL, timeLimit IN NUMBER := 0, testcase_name IN VARCHAR2 := NULL, testcase IN OUT NOCOPY CLOB, preserveSchemaMapping IN BOOLEAN := FALSE, version IN VARCHAR2 := 'COMPATIBLE'); This variant extracts the SQL information from an incident file. DBMS_SQLDIAG.EXPORT_SQL_TESTCASE ( directory IN VARCHAR2, incident_id IN VARCHAR2, exportEnvironment IN BOOLEAN := TRUE, exportMetadata IN BOOLEAN := TRUE, exportData IN BOOLEAN := FALSE, exportPkgbody IN BOOLEAN := FALSE, samplingPercent IN NUMBER := 100, ctrlOptions IN VARCHAR2 := NULL, timeLimit IN NUMBER := DBMS_SQLDIAG.TIME_LIMIT_DEFAULT, testcase_name IN VARCHAR2 := NULL, testcase IN OUT NOCOPY CLOB, preserveSchemaMapping IN BOOLEAN := FALSE) version IN VARCHAR2 := 'COMPATIBLE'); This variant allow the SQL Test case to be generated from a cursor present in the cursor cache. Use V$SQL to get the SQL identifier and the SQL hash value. DBMS_SQLDIAG.EXPORT_SQL_TESTCASE ( directory IN VARCHAR2, sql_id IN VARCHAR2, plan_hash_value IN NUMBER := NULL, exportEnvironment IN BOOLEAN := TRUE, exportMetadata IN BOOLEAN := TRUE, exportData IN BOOLEAN := FALSE, exportPkgbody IN BOOLEAN := FALSE, samplingPercent IN NUMBER := 100, ctrlOptions IN VARCHAR2 := NULL, timeLimit IN NUMBER := DBMS_SQLDIAG.TIME_LIMIT_DEFAULT, testcase_name IN VARCHAR2 := NULL, testcase IN OUT NOCOPY CLOB, preserveSchemaMapping IN BOOLEAN := FALSE) version IN VARCHAR2 := 'COMPATIBLE'); Parameters Table 165-20 EXPORT_SQL_TESTCASE Procedure Parameters Parameter Description directory Directory to store the various generated files sql_text Text of the SQL statement to export incident_id Incident ID containing the offending SQL sql_id Identifier of the statement in the cursor cache username Name of the user schema to use to parse the SQL, defaults to SYS bind_list List of bind values associated to the statement exportEnvironment TRUE if the compilation environment should be exported exportMetadata TRUE if the definition of the objects referenced in the SQL should be exported exportData TRUE if the data of the objects referenced in the SQL should be exported exportPkgbody TRUE if the body of the packages referenced in the SQL are exported samplingPercent If is TRUE , specify the sampling percentage to use to create the dump file ctrlOptions Opaque control parameters. For example, to execute three times, set ctrlOptions with the following string: '<parameter name="mexec_count">3</parameter>' . name="capture” - BASIC (default) or WITH_RUNTIME_INFO . This parameter defines the mode of TCB capture. BASIC : runs as Oracle release 11 g TCB and captures all the information that is captured in that release as well as AWR reports, SQL monitor reports and parameter information. WITH_RUNTIME_INFO : TCB captures runtime information for the SQL, such as dynamic sampling data, list of binds, Dynamic Plan info, along with information captured under BASIC mode. Note this must be the same value as used in the IMPORT_SQL_TESTCASE Procedures . name="mexec_count” –Value is any positive number ( N ). This parameter tells TCB to execute the statement for N time and capture runtime info at end of each execution. name="stat_history_since” –Value is date. The object statistics history is exported using this parameter. Statistics history after date specified will be exported. name="compress” –This option is used to compress the SQL Test Case Builder output files into a zip file. The possible values are: YES NO The default value is NO . name="diag_event" –This option is used to specify the level of trace information to include in the SQL Test Case Builder output. The possible values are: ADS COMPILER SQLEXEC_LOW SQLEXEC_MEDIUM SQLEXEC_HIGH SQLEXEC_HIGHEST The default value is ADS + COMPILER . name="problem_type" –This option is used to assign an issue type for a SQL Test Case Builder test case. For example, if a test case is related to performance regression issue, then you can assign the value of PERFORMANCE to the problem_type option. The possible values are : PERFORMANCE WRONG_RESULTS COMPILATION_ERROR EXECUTION_ERROR The default value is PERFORMANCE . timeLimit How much time should we spend exporting the SQL test case testcaseName An optional name for the SQL test case. This is used to prefix all the generated scripts testcase Resulting testcase preserveSchemaMapping TRUE if the schema (or schemas) are not re-mapped from the original environment to the test environment version Version of database objects to be extracted. This option is only valid for EXPORT . Database objects or attributes incompatible with the version will not be extracted. COMPATIBLE - (default) the version of the metadata corresponds to the database compatibility level and the compatibility release level for feature (as given in the V$COMPATIBILITY view). Database compatibility must be set to 9.2 or higher. LATEST - the version of the metadata that specifies the current database version. A specific database version. For example, if '10.0.0' , this cannot be lower than Oracle Database release 10.0.0. Usage Notes A SQL test case generates a set of files needed to help reproduce a SQL failure on a different machine. It contains: a dump file containing schemas objects and statistics ( .dmp ) the explain plan for the statements (in advanced mode) diagnostic information gathered on the offending statement an import script to execute to reload the objects a SQL script to replay system statistics of the source a table of contents file describing the SQL test case metadata. ( xxxxmain.xml ) a README.txt file that explain the usage of the TCB the outlines used by the statement ( ol.xml ) a list of parameters set in the exporting db/env ( prmimp.sql ) a SQL monitor report, if any ( smrpt.html ) an AWR report, if any ( awrrpt.html ) a list of binds used in this statement ( bndlst.xml ) You should not run Test Case Builder (TCB) under user SYS . Instead, use another user who can be granted the DBA privilege. The default setting for TCB is that data is not exported. However, in some cases data is required, such as to diagnose an outcome with a result that is not optimal. To export data, call EXPORT_SQL_TESTCASE with exportData=>TRUE and the data will be imported by default, unless turned OFF by importData=>FALSE . TCB includes PL/SQL package spec by default, but not the PL/SQL package body. However, you may need to have the package body as well, for example, to invoke the PL/SQL functions, or because you have a Virtual Private Database (VPD) function defined in a package. To export a PL/SQL package body, call EXPORT_SQL_TESTCASE with exportPkgbody=>TRUE . To import a PL/SQL package body, call IMPORT_SQL_TESTCASE Procedures with i mportPkgbody=>TRUE . To export objects statistics history, the database compatibility should be set to 12.0 or higher. This procedure does not export data and statistics on a Global Temporary Table (GTT). Examples The user can specify multiple parameters in the ctrlOptions encapsulated either by using the <parameters> parent tag or without the parent tag. Using the <parameters> tag <parameters> <parameter name="capture">with_runtime_info</parameter> <parameter name="mexec_count">1</parameter> </parameters> Without the <parameters> tag <parameter name="capture">with_runtime_info</parameter> <parameter name="mexec_count">1</parameter>' The compress option that you can specify in the ctrlOptions parameter: opt := '<parameters> <parameter name="capture">with_runtime_info</parameter> <parameter name="compress">yes</parameter> </parameters>'; The diag_event option that you can specify in the ctrlOptions parameter: opt := '<parameters> <parameter name="capture">with_runtime_info</parameter> <parameter name="compress">yes</parameter> </parameters>'; The problem_type option that you can specify in the ctrlOptions parameter: opt := '<parameters> <parameter name="capture">with_runtime_info</parameter> <parameter name="compress">yes</parameter> </parameters>';