---
id: 19c__DBMS_DATA_MINING_TRANSFORM.INSERT_BIN_CAT_FREQ
name: DBMS_DATA_MINING_TRANSFORM.INSERT_BIN_CAT_FREQ
object_type: plsql_procedure
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_DATA_MINING_TRANSFORM
tags: [dbms_data_mining_transform]
source_file: DBMS_DATA_MINING_TRANSFORM.html
---

# DBMS_DATA_MINING_TRANSFORM.INSERT_BIN_CAT_FREQ

This procedure performs categorical binning and inserts the transformation definitions in a transformation definition table. The procedure computes the bin boundaries based on frequency.

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_DATA_MINING_TRANSFORM.INSERT_BIN_CAT_FREQ (
     bin_table_name       IN VARCHAR2,
     data_table_name      IN VARCHAR2,
     bin_num              IN PLS_INTEGER DEFAULT 9,
     exclude_list         IN COLUMN_LIST DEFAULT NULL,
     default_num          IN PLS_INTEGER DEFAULT 2,
     bin_support          IN NUMBER DEFAULT NULL,
     bin_schema_name      IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL,
     data_schema_name     IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL);
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Mode | Description |
|-----------|------|------|-------------|
| bin_table_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Name of the transformation definition table for categorical binning. You can use the CREATE_BIN_CAT Procedure to create the definition table.The following columns are required: COL VARCHAR2(30) VAL VARCHAR2(4000) BIN VARCHAR2(4000) CREATE_BIN_CAT creates an additional column, ATT , which may be used for specifying nested attributes. This column is not used by INSERT_BIN_CAT_FREQ . |
| data_table_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Name of the table containing the data to be transformed |
| bin_num | PLS_INTEGER | IN | The number of bins to fill using frequency-based binning The total number of bins will be bin_num +1. The additional bin is the default bin. Classes that are not assigned to a frequency-based bin will be assigned to the default bin. The default binning order is from highest to lowest: the most frequently occurring class is assigned to the first bin, the second most frequently occurring class is assigned to the second bin, and so on.You can reverse the binning order by specifying a negative number for bin_num . The negative sign causes the binning order to be from lowest to highest. If the total number of distinct values (classes) in the column is less than bin_num , then a separate bin will be created for each value and the default bin will be empty. If you specify NULL or 0 for bin_num , no binning is performed. The default value of bin_num is 9. |
| exclude_list | COLUMN_LIST | IN | List of categorical columns to be excluded from the binning process. If you do not specify exclude_list , all categorical columns in the data source are binned. The format of exclude_list is: dbms_data_mining_transform.COLUMN_LIST('col 1 ','col 2 ', ...'col n ') |
| default_num | PLS_INTEGER | IN | The number of class occurrences (rows of the same class) required for assignment to the default bin By default, default_num is the minimum number of occurrences required for assignment to the default bin. For example, if default_num is 3 and a given class occurs only once, it will not be assigned to the default bin. You can change the occurrence requirement from minimum to maximum by specifying a negative number for default_num . For example, if default_num is -3 and a given class occurs only once, it will be assigned to the default bin, but a class that occurs four or more times will not be included. If you specify NULL or 0 for default_bin , there are no requirements for assignment to the default bin. The default value of default_num is 2. |
| bin_support | NUMBER | IN | The number of class occurrences (rows of the same class) required for assignment to a frequency-based bin. bin_support is expressed as a fraction of the total number of rows. By default, bin_support is the minimum percentage required for assignment to a frequency-based bin. For example, if there are twenty rows of data and you specify.2 for bin_support , then there must be four or more occurrences of a class (.2*20) in order for it to be assigned to a frequency-based bin. You can change bin_support from a minimum percentage to a maximum percentage by specifying a negative number for bin_support . For example, if there are twenty rows of data and you specify -.2 for bin_support , then there must be four or less occurrences of a class in order for it to be assigned to a frequency-based bin. Classes that occur less than a positive bin_support or more than a negative bin_support will be assigned to the default bin. If you specify NULL or 0 for bin_support , then there is no support requirement for frequency-based binning. The default value of bin_support is NULL . |
| bin_schema_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Schema of bin_table_name . If no schema is specified, the current schema is used. |
| data_schema_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Schema of data_table_name . If no schema is specified, the current schema is used. |

## Usage Notes

INSERT_BIN_CAT_FREQ bins all the CHAR and VARCHAR2 columns in the data source unless you specify a list of columns to ignore. Syntax DBMS_DATA_MINING_TRANSFORM.INSERT_BIN_CAT_FREQ ( bin_table_name IN VARCHAR2, data_table_name IN VARCHAR2, bin_num IN PLS_INTEGER DEFAULT 9, exclude_list IN COLUMN_LIST DEFAULT NULL, default_num IN PLS_INTEGER DEFAULT 2, bin_support IN NUMBER DEFAULT NULL, bin_schema_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, data_schema_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL); Parameters Table 48-21 INSERT_BIN_CAT_FREQ Procedure Parameters Parameter Description bin_table_name Name of the transformation definition table for categorical binning. You can use the CREATE_BIN_CAT Procedure to create the definition table.The following columns are required: COL VARCHAR2(30) VAL VARCHAR2(4000) BIN VARCHAR2(4000) CREATE_BIN_CAT creates an additional column, ATT , which may be used for specifying nested attributes. This column is not used by INSERT_BIN_CAT_FREQ . data_table_name Name of the table containing the data to be transformed bin_num The number of bins to fill using frequency-based binning The total number of bins will be bin_num +1. The additional bin is the default bin. Classes that are not assigned to a frequency-based bin will be assigned to the default bin. The default binning order is from highest to lowest: the most frequently occurring class is assigned to the first bin, the second most frequently occurring class is assigned to the second bin, and so on.You can reverse the binning order by specifying a negative number for bin_num . The negative sign causes the binning order to be from lowest to highest. If the total number of distinct values (classes) in the column is less than bin_num , then a separate bin will be created for each value and the default bin will be empty. If you specify NULL or 0 for bin_num , no binning is performed. The default value of bin_num is 9. exclude_list List of categorical columns to be excluded from the binning process. If you do not specify exclude_list , all categorical columns in the data source are binned. The format of exclude_list is: dbms_data_mining_transform.COLUMN_LIST('col 1 ','col 2 ', ...'col n ') default_num The number of class occurrences (rows of the same class) required for assignment to the default bin By default, default_num is the minimum number of occurrences required for assignment to the default bin. For example, if default_num is 3 and a given class occurs only once, it will not be assigned to the default bin. You can change the occurrence requirement from minimum to maximum by specifying a negative number for default_num . For example, if default_num is -3 and a given class occurs only once, it will be assigned to the default bin, but a class that occurs four or more times will not be included. If you specify NULL or 0 for default_bin , there are no requirements for assignment to the default bin. The default value of default_num is 2. bin_support The number of class occurrences (rows of the same class) required for assignment to a frequency-based bin. bin_support is expressed as a fraction of the total number of rows. By default, bin_support is the minimum percentage required for assignment to a frequency-based bin. For example, if there are twenty rows of data and you specify.2 for bin_support , then there must be four or more occurrences of a class (.2*20) in order for it to be assigned to a frequency-based bin. You can change bin_support from a minimum percentage to a maximum percentage by specifying a negative number for bin_support . For example, if there are twenty rows of data and you specify -.2 for bin_support , then there must be four or less occurrences of a class in order for it to be assigned to a frequency-based bin. Classes that occur less than a positive bin_support or more than a negative bin_support will be assigned to the default bin. If you specify NULL or 0 for bin_support , then there is no support requirement for frequency-based binning. The default value of bin_support is NULL . bin_schema_name Schema of bin_table_name . If no schema is specified, the current schema is used. data_schema_name Schema of data_table_name . If no schema is specified, the current schema is used. Usage Notes See Oracle Data Mining User's Guide for details about categorical data. If values occur with the same frequency, INSERT_BIN_CAT_FREQ assigns them in descending order when binning is from most to least frequent, or in ascending order when binning is from least to most frequent. Examples In this example, INSERT_BIN_CAT_FREQ computes the bin boundaries for the cust_postal_code and cust_city columns in sh.customers and inserts the transformations in a transformation definition table. The STACK_BIN_CAT Procedure creates a transformation list from the contents of the definition table, and the CREATE_MODEL Procedure embeds the transformation list in a new model called nb_model . The transformation and reverse transformation expressions embedded in nb_model are returned by the GET_MODEL_TRANSFORMATIONS Function . CREATE OR REPLACE VIEW mining_data AS SELECT cust_id, cust_year_of_birth, cust_postal_code, cust_city FROM sh.customers; DESCRIBE mining_data Name Null? Type ------------------------------------- -------- ----------------------------- CUST_ID NOT NULL NUMBER CUST_YEAR_OF_BIRTH NOT NULL NUMBER(4) CUST_POSTAL_CODE NOT NULL VARCHAR2(10) CUST_CITY NOT NULL VARCHAR2(30) BEGIN dbms_data_mining_transform.CREATE_BIN_CAT( bin_table_name => 'bin_tbl_1'); dbms_data_mining_transform.INSERT_BIN_CAT_FREQ ( bin_table_name => 'bin_tbl_1', data_table_name => 'mining_data', bin_num => 4); END; / column col format a18 column val format a15 column bin format a10 SELECT col, val, bin FROM bin_tbl_1 ORDER BY col ASC, bin ASC; COL VAL BIN ------------------ --------------- ---------- CUST_CITY Los Angeles 1 CUST_CITY Greenwich 2 CUST_CITY Killarney 3 CUST_CITY Montara 4 CUST_CITY 5 CUST_POSTAL_CODE 38082 1 CUST_POSTAL_CODE 63736 2 CUST_POSTAL_CODE 55787 3 CUST_POSTAL_CODE 78558 4 CUST_POSTAL_CODE 5 DECLARE city_xform dbms_data_mining_transform.TRANSFORM_LIST; BEGIN dbms_data_mining_transform.STACK_BIN_CAT ( bin_table_name => 'bin_tbl_1', xform_list => city_xform); dbms_data_mining.CREATE_MODEL( model_name => 'nb_model', mining_function => dbms_data_mining.classification, data_table_name => 'mining_data', case_id_column_name => 'cust_id', target_column_name => 'cust_city', settings_table_name => null, data_schema_name => null, settings_schema_name => null, xform_list => city_xform); END; / SELECT attribute_name FROM TABLE(dbms_data_mining.GET_MODEL_TRANSFORMATIONS('nb_model')); ATTRIBUTE_NAME ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- CUST_CITY CUST_POSTAL_CODE SELECT expression FROM TABLE(dbms_data_mining.GET_MODEL_TRANSFORMATIONS('nb_model')); EXPRESSION ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- DECODE("CUST_CITY",'Greenwich','2','Killarney','3','Los Angeles','1', 'Montara','4',NULL,NULL,'5') DECODE("CUST_POSTAL_CODE",'38082','1','55787','3','63736','2','78558','4',NULL,NULL,'5') SELECT reverse_expression FROM TABLE(dbms_data_mining.GET_MODEL_TRANSFORMATIONS('nb_model')); REVERSE_EXPRESSION ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- DECODE("CUST_CITY",'2','''Greenwich''','3','''Killarney''','1', '''Los Angeles''','4','''Montara''',NULL,'NULL','5','DEFAULT') DECODE("CUST_POSTAL_CODE",'1','''38082''','3','''55787''','2','''63736''', '4','''78558''',NULL,'NULL','5','DEFAULT') The binning order in example 1 is from most frequent to least frequent. The following example shows reverse order binning (least frequent to most frequent). The binning order is reversed by setting bin_num to -4 instead of 4. BEGIN dbms_data_mining_transform.CREATE_BIN_CAT( bin_table_name => 'bin_tbl_reverse'); dbms_data_mining_transform.INSERT_BIN_CAT_FREQ ( bin_table_name => 'bin_tbl_reverse', data_table_name => 'mining_data', bin_num => -4); END; / column col format a20 SELECT col, val, bin FROM bin_tbl_reverse ORDER BY col ASC, bin ASC; COL VAL BIN -------------------- --------------- ---------- CUST_CITY Tokyo 1 CUST_CITY Sliedrecht 2 CUST_CITY Haarlem 3 CUST_CITY Diemen 4 CUST_CITY 5 CUST_POSTAL_CODE 49358 1 CUST_POSTAL_CODE 80563 2 CUST_POSTAL_CODE 74903 3 CUST_POSTAL_CODE 71349 4 CUST_POSTAL_CODE 5