---
id: 19c__DBMS_RLS.ADD_POLICY
name: DBMS_RLS.ADD_POLICY
object_type: plsql_procedure
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_RLS
tags: [dbms_rls]
source_file: DBMS_RLS.html
---

# DBMS_RLS.ADD_POLICY

This procedure adds a fine-grained access control policy to a table, view, or synonym.

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_RLS.ADD_POLICY ( 
   object_schema            IN  VARCHAR2       DEFAULT NULL,
   object_name              IN  VARCHAR2,
   policy_name              IN  VARCHAR2,
   function_schema          IN  VARCHAR2       DEFAULT NULL,
   policy_function          IN  VARCHAR2,
   statement_types          IN  VARCHAR2       DEFAULT NULL,
   update_check             IN  BOOLEAN        DEFAULT FALSE,
   enable                   IN  BOOLEAN        DEFAULT TRUE,
   static_policy            IN  BOOLEAN        DEFAULT FALSE,
   policy_type              IN  BINARY_INTEGER DEFAULT NULL,
   long_predicate           IN  BOOLEAN        DEFAULT FALSE,
   sec_relevant_cols        IN  VARCHAR2       DEFAULT NULL,
   sec_relevant_cols_opt    IN  BINARY_INTEGER DEFAULT NULL,
   namespace                IN  VARCHAR2       DEFAULT NULL,
   attribute                IN  VARCHAR2       DEFAULT NULL);
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Mode | Description |
|-----------|------|------|-------------|
| object_schema | VARCHAR2 | IN | Schema containing the table, view, or synonym. If no object_schema is specified or is NULL , then the current schema is used. |
| object_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Name of table, view, or synonym to which the policy is added. |
| policy_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Name of policy to be added. It must be unique for the same table or view. Do not enter special characters such as spaces or commas. If you want to use special characters for the policy name, then enclose the name in quotation marks. |
| function_schema | VARCHAR2 | IN | Schema owning the policy function. If no function_schema is specified or is NULL , then the current schema is used. |
| policy_function | VARCHAR2 | IN | Name of a function which generates a predicate for the policy. If the function is defined within a package, then the name of the package must be present. |
| statement_types | VARCHAR2 | IN | Statement types to which the policy applies. It can be any combination of INDEX, SELECT , UPDATE , or DELETE . The default is to apply to all of these types except INSERT and INDEX . |
| update_check | BOOLEAN | IN | Optional argument for the INSERT or UPDATE statement type. The default is FALSE . If you plan to use the INSERT statement type, then you must set update_check to TRUE . Otherwise, an ORA-28104 input value for string is not valid error is generated. The check applies only to the security relevant columns that are included in the policy definition. In other words, the INSERT or UPDATE operation will fail only if the security relevant column that is defined in the policy is added or updated in the INSERT or UPDATE statement. |
| enable | BOOLEAN | IN | Indicates if the policy is enabled when it is added. The default is TRUE. |
| static_policy | BOOLEAN | IN | The default is FALSE . If it is set to TRUE , the server assumes that the policy function for the static policy produces the same predicate string for anyone accessing the object, except for SYS or the privileged user who has the EXEMPT ACCESS POLICY privilege. |
| policy_type | BINARY_INTEGER | IN | Default is NULL , which means policy_type is decided by the value of static_policy . The available policy types are listed in Table 146-5 . Specifying any of these policy types overrides the value of static_policy . |
| long_predicate | BOOLEAN | IN | Default is FALSE , which means the policy function can return a predicate with a length of up to 4000 bytes. TRUE means the predicate text string length can be up to 32K bytes.Policies existing prior to the availability of this parameter retain a 32K limit. |
| sec_relevant_cols | VARCHAR2 | IN | Enables column-level Virtual Private Database (VPD), which enforces security policies when a column containing sensitive information is referenced in a query. Applies to tables and views, but not to synonyms. Specify a list of comma- or space-separated valid column names of the policy-protected object. The policy is enforced only if a specified column is referenced (or, for an abstract datatype column, its attributes are referenced) in the user SQL statement or its underlying view definition. Default is all the user-defined columns for the object. |
| sec_relevant_cols_opt | BINARY_INTEGER | IN | Use with sec_relevant_cols to display all rows for column-level VPD filtered queries ( SELECT only), but where sensitive columns appear as NULL . Default is set to NULL , which allows the filtering defined with sec_relevant_cols to take effect. Set to dbms_rls.ALL_ROWS to display all rows, but with sensitive column values, which are filtered by sec_relevant_cols , displayed as NULL . See Usage Notes for restrictions and additional information about this option. |
| namespace | VARCHAR2 | IN | Name which determines the application context namespace |
| attribute | VARCHAR2 | IN | Attribute which determines the application context attribute name |

## Usage Notes

The procedure causes the current transaction, if any, to commit before the operation is carried out. However, this does not cause a commit first if it is inside a DDL event trigger. See Also: Operational Notes A COMMIT is also performed at the end of the operation. See Also: Operational Notes Syntax DBMS_RLS.ADD_POLICY ( object_schema IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, object_name IN VARCHAR2, policy_name IN VARCHAR2, function_schema IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, policy_function IN VARCHAR2, statement_types IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, update_check IN BOOLEAN DEFAULT FALSE, enable IN BOOLEAN DEFAULT TRUE, static_policy IN BOOLEAN DEFAULT FALSE, policy_type IN BINARY_INTEGER DEFAULT NULL, long_predicate IN BOOLEAN DEFAULT FALSE, sec_relevant_cols IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, sec_relevant_cols_opt IN BINARY_INTEGER DEFAULT NULL, namespace IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, attribute IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL); Parameters Table 146-4 ADD_POLICY Procedure Parameters Parameter Description object_schema Schema containing the table, view, or synonym. If no object_schema is specified or is NULL , then the current schema is used. object_name Name of table, view, or synonym to which the policy is added. policy_name Name of policy to be added. It must be unique for the same table or view. Do not enter special characters such as spaces or commas. If you want to use special characters for the policy name, then enclose the name in quotation marks. function_schema Schema owning the policy function. If no function_schema is specified or is NULL , then the current schema is used. policy_function Name of a function which generates a predicate for the policy. If the function is defined within a package, then the name of the package must be present. statement_types Statement types to which the policy applies. It can be any combination of INDEX, SELECT , UPDATE , or DELETE . The default is to apply to all of these types except INSERT and INDEX . update_check Optional argument for the INSERT or UPDATE statement type. The default is FALSE . If you plan to use the INSERT statement type, then you must set update_check to TRUE . Otherwise, an ORA-28104 input value for string is not valid error is generated. The check applies only to the security relevant columns that are included in the policy definition. In other words, the INSERT or UPDATE operation will fail only if the security relevant column that is defined in the policy is added or updated in the INSERT or UPDATE statement. enable Indicates if the policy is enabled when it is added. The default is TRUE. static_policy The default is FALSE . If it is set to TRUE , the server assumes that the policy function for the static policy produces the same predicate string for anyone accessing the object, except for SYS or the privileged user who has the EXEMPT ACCESS POLICY privilege. policy_type Default is NULL , which means policy_type is decided by the value of static_policy . The available policy types are listed in Table 146-5 . Specifying any of these policy types overrides the value of static_policy . long_predicate Default is FALSE , which means the policy function can return a predicate with a length of up to 4000 bytes. TRUE means the predicate text string length can be up to 32K bytes.Policies existing prior to the availability of this parameter retain a 32K limit. sec_relevant_cols Enables column-level Virtual Private Database (VPD), which enforces security policies when a column containing sensitive information is referenced in a query. Applies to tables and views, but not to synonyms. Specify a list of comma- or space-separated valid column names of the policy-protected object. The policy is enforced only if a specified column is referenced (or, for an abstract datatype column, its attributes are referenced) in the user SQL statement or its underlying view definition. Default is all the user-defined columns for the object. sec_relevant_cols_opt Use with sec_relevant_cols to display all rows for column-level VPD filtered queries ( SELECT only), but where sensitive columns appear as NULL . Default is set to NULL , which allows the filtering defined with sec_relevant_cols to take effect. Set to dbms_rls.ALL_ROWS to display all rows, but with sensitive column values, which are filtered by sec_relevant_cols , displayed as NULL . See Usage Notes for restrictions and additional information about this option. namespace Name which determines the application context namespace attribute Attribute which determines the application context attribute name Table 146-5 DBMS_RLS.ADD_POLICY Policy Types Policy Type Description STATIC Predicate is assumed to be the same regardless of the runtime environment. Static policy functions are executed once and then cached in SGA. Statements accessing the same object do not reexecute the policy function. However, each execution of the same cursor could produce a different row set even for the same predicate because the predicate may filter the data differently based on attributes such as SYS_CONTEXT or SYSDATE . Applies to only one object. SHARED_STATIC Same as STATIC except that the server first looks for a cached predicate generated by the same policy function of the same policy type. Shared across multiple objects. CONTEXT_SENSITIVE Server re-evaluates the policy function at statement execution time if it detects context changes since the last use of the cursor. For session pooling where multiple clients share a database session, the middle tier must reset context during client switches. Note that the server does not cache the value returned by the function for this policy type; it always executes the policy function on statement parsing. Applies to only one object. SHARED_CONTEXT_SENSITIVE Same as CONTEXT_SENSITIVE except that the server first looks for a cached predicate generated by the same policy function of the same policy type within the same database session. If the predicate is found in the session memory, the policy function is not reexecuted and the cached value is valid until session private application context changes occur. Shared across multiple objects. DYNAMIC The default policy type. Server assumes the predicate may be affected by any system or session environment at any time, and so always reexecutes the policy function upon each statement parsing and execution. Applies to only one object. Usage Notes SYS is free of any security policy. The policy functions are called by the server. Following is the interface for the function: FUNCTION policy_function (object_schema IN VARCHAR2, object_name VARCHAR2) RETURN VARCHAR2 --- object_schema is the schema owning the table or view. --- object_name is the name of table, view, or synonym to which the policy applies. The policy functions must have the purity level of WNDS (write no database state). See Also: The Oracle Database Development Guide has more details about the RESTRICT_REFERENCES pragma. Predicates generated from different VPD policies for the same object have the combined effect of a conjunction ( AND ed) of all the predicates. The security check and object lookup are performed against the owner of the policy function for objects in the subqueries of the dynamic predicates. If the function returns a zero length predicate, then it is interpreted as no restriction being applied to the current user for the policy. When a table alias is required (for example, parent object is a type table) in the predicate, the name of the table or view itself must be used as the name of the alias. The server constructs the transient view as something like "select c1, c2, ... from tab tab where <predicate>" Validity of the function is checked at runtime for ease of installation and other dependency issues during import and export. Column-level VPD column masking behavior (specified with sec_relevant_cols_opt => dbms_rls.ALL_ROWS ) is fundamentally different from all other VPD policies, which return only a subset of rows. Instead the column masking behavior returns all rows specified by the user's query, but the sensitive column values display as NULL . The restrictions for this option are as follows: Only applies to SELECT statements Unlike regular VPD predicates, the masking condition that is generated by the policy function must be a simple boolean expression. If your application performs calculations, or does not expect NULL values, then you should use the default behavior of column-level VPD, which is specified with the sec_relevant_cols parameter. If you use UPDATE AS SELECT with this option, then only the values in the columns you are allowed to see will be updated. This option may prevent some rows from displaying. For example: SELECT * FROM employees WHERE salary = 10 This query may not return rows if the salary column returns a NULL value because the column masking option has been set. When you add a VPD policy to a synonym, it causes all the dependent objects of the synonym, including policy functions that reference the synonym, to be marked INVALID . You cannot associate a global application context with a context sensitive policy or a context shared sensitive policy. The maximum number of policies that can be created for a single object is 255.