---
id: 19c__DBMS_STATS.GET_PREFS
name: DBMS_STATS.GET_PREFS
object_type: plsql_function
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_STATS
tags: [dbms_stats]
source_file: DBMS_STATS.html
---

# DBMS_STATS.GET_PREFS

This function returns the default value of the specified preference.

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_STATS.GET_PREFS (
   pname     IN   VARCHAR2,
   ownname   IN   VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL,
   tabname   IN   VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL)
 RETURN VARCHAR2;
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Mode | Description |
|-----------|------|------|-------------|
| pname | VARCHAR2 | IN | Preference name. The possible values are: APPROXIMATE_NDV_ALGORITHM AUTO_STAT_EXTENSIONS AUTO_TASK_STATUS AUTO_TASK_MAX_RUN_TIME AUTO_TASK_INTERVAL CASCADE CONCURRENT DEGREE ESTIMATE_PERCENT GLOBAL_TEMP_TABLE_STATS GRANULARITY INCREMENTAL INCREMENTAL_STALENESS INCREMENTAL_LEVEL METHOD_OPT NO_INVALIDATE OPTIONS PREFERENCE_OVERRIDES_PARAMETER PUBLISH STALE_PERCENT STAT_CATEGORY TABLE_CACHED_BLOCKS WAIT_TIME_TO_UPDATE_STATS |
| ownname | VARCHAR2 | IN | Owner name |
| tabname | VARCHAR2 | IN | Table name |

**Returns:** `VARCHAR2`

## Usage Notes

Syntax DBMS_STATS.GET_PREFS ( pname IN VARCHAR2, ownname IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, tabname IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL) RETURN VARCHAR2; Parameters Table 171-66 GET_PREFS Function Parameters Parameter Description pname Preference name. The possible values are: APPROXIMATE_NDV_ALGORITHM AUTO_STAT_EXTENSIONS AUTO_TASK_STATUS AUTO_TASK_MAX_RUN_TIME AUTO_TASK_INTERVAL CASCADE CONCURRENT DEGREE ESTIMATE_PERCENT GLOBAL_TEMP_TABLE_STATS GRANULARITY INCREMENTAL INCREMENTAL_STALENESS INCREMENTAL_LEVEL METHOD_OPT NO_INVALIDATE OPTIONS PREFERENCE_OVERRIDES_PARAMETER PUBLISH STALE_PERCENT STAT_CATEGORY TABLE_CACHED_BLOCKS WAIT_TIME_TO_UPDATE_STATS ownname Owner name tabname Table name Table 171-67 Preference Descriptions Preference Name Description APPROXIMATE_NDV_ALGORITHM Specifies the synopsis generation algorithm. A synopsis is special type of statistic that tracks the number of distinct values (NDV) for each column in a partition. Consider a synopsis as an internal management structure that samples distinct values. You can specify the following preferences: REPEAT OR HYPERLOGLOG This is the default. If INCREMENTAL is enabled on the table, then the database preserves the format of any existing synopses that use the adaptive sampling algorithm. However, the database creates any new synopses in HyperLogLog format. This approach is attractive when existing performance is acceptable, and you do not want to incur the performance cost of reformatting legacy content. ADAPTIVE SAMPLING The database uses the adaptive sampling algorithm for all synopses. This is the most conservative option. HYPERLOGLOG The database uses the HyperLogLog algorithm for all new and stale synopses. In contrast to adaptive sampling, the HyperLogLog algorithm uses a randomization technique. The advantages of HyperLogLog over adaptive sampling are: The accuracy of the new algorithm is similar to the original algorithm. The memory required is significantly lower, which typically leads to huge reductions in synopsis size. AUTO_STAT_EXTENSIONS Controls the automatic creation of extensions when database statistics are gathered. You can set the following values: ON — When applicable, a SQL plan directive can trigger the creation of column group statistics based on usage of columns in the predicates in the workload. OFF — The database does not create column group statistics automatically. The database creates them only when the CREATE_EXTENDED_STATS function is executed, or when extended statistics are specified explicitly in the METHOD_OPT clause of DBMS_STATS . This is the default. AUTO_TASK_STATUS Enables or disables the high-frequency automatic optimizer statistics collection . Values are: ON — Enables high-frequency automatic optimizer statistics collection . OFF — Disables high-frequency automatic optimizer statistics collection . This is the default. AUTO_TASK_MAX_RUN_TIME Configures the maximum run time in seconds of an execution of high-frequency automatic optimizer statistics collection . The maximum value is 3600 (equal to 1 hour), which is the default. AUTO_TASK_INTERVAL Specifies the interval in seconds between executions of high-frequency automatic optimizer statistics collection . The minimum value is 60 . The default is 900 (equal to 15 minutes). CASCADE Determines whether index statistics are collected as part of gathering table statistics. CONCURRENT Determines whether statistics are gathered concurrently on multiple objects, or serially, one object at a time. Valid values are: MANUAL — Concurrency is enabled only for manual statistics gathering. AUTOMATIC — Concurrency is enabled only for the automatic statistics gathering. ALL — Concurrency is enabled for both manual and automatic statistics gathering. OFF — Concurrency is disabled for both manual and automatic statistics. DEGREE Determines degree of parallelism used for gathering statistics. ESTIMATE_PERCENT Determines the percentage of rows to sample. The valid range is between 0.000001 and 100. Use the constant DBMS_STATS.AUTO_SAMPLE_SIZE to enable the database to determine the appropriate sample size for optimal statistics. This is the default. GLOBAL_TEMP_TABLE_STATS Controls whether the statistics gathered for a global temporary table should be stored as shared statistics or session statistics. This preference takes two values: SHARED — All sessions see the same set of statistics SESSION — Statistics gathered by the GATHER_TABLE_STATS procedure on a global temporary table are session-specific. Thus, the database only uses them for queries issued in the same session as the statistics gathering process. The database deletes session-specific statistics when a session terminates. GRANULARITY Determines the granularity of statistics to collect. This preference is only relevant for partitioned tables. The following values are valid: ALL — Gathers all statistics: subpartition, partition, and global. AUTO — Determines the granularity based on the partitioning type. This is the default value. DEFAULT — Gathers global and partition-level statistics. This option is obsolete, and while currently supported, it is included in the documentation for legacy reasons only. Use GLOBAL AND PARTITION for this functionality. GLOBAL — Gathers global statistics. GLOBAL AND PARTITION — Gathers the global and partition level statistics. No subpartition level statistics are gathered even if it is a composite partitioned object. PARTITION — Gathers partition-level statistics. SUBPARTITION — Gathers subpartition-level statistics. INCREMENTAL Determines whether the global statistics for a partitioned table are maintained without performing a full table scan. When a table is partitioned, an application typically loads data into a new partition. As new partitions are added and data is loaded, global table statistics must be kept up to date. If the following conditions are met, then the database updates the global table statistics by scanning only the changed partitions instead of the entire table: The INCREMENTAL value for the partitioned table is set to TRUE . The PUBLISH value for the partitioned table is set to TRUE . The user specifies AUTO_SAMPLE_SIZE for ESTIMATE_PERCENT and AUTO for GRANULARITY when gathering statistics on the table. If the INCREMENTAL value for the partitioned table was set to FALSE (default value), then the database uses a full table scan to maintain the global statistics. This technique is a much more resource-intensive and time-consuming operation for large tables. INCREMENTAL_LEVEL Controls which synopses to collect when INCREMENTAL preference is set to TRUE . It takes the following values: PARTITION — Gathers partition-level synopses. This is the default value. If PARTITION is set on a nonpartitioned table, then the database does not gather synopses. TABLE — Gathers table-level synopses. Specify this value when you want to exchange this table with a partition. Before the exchange, you can run GATHER_TABLE_STATS on this table with INCREMENTAL set to TRUE and INCREMENTAL_LEVEL to TABLE . The result is that the database gathers table-level synopses on this table. After the exchange, the partition has synopses that come from the table-level synopses of the table before the exchange. You can only use preference value in the SET_TABLE_PREFS procedure: this value is not allowed in the other SET_ * _PREFS procedures. INCREMENTAL_STALENESS Specifies when a partition or subpartition is considered stale. This parameter takes an enumeration of values, such as 'USE_STALE_PERCENT' and 'USE_LOCKED_STATS' . You can also specify multiple values, such as 'USE_STALE_PERCENT,USE_LOCKED_STATS,ALLOW_MIXED_FORMAT' . The parameter accepts the following values: USE_STALE_PERCENT —A partition or subpartition is not considered stale when DML changes are below the threshold set by the STALE_PERCENT preference. For example, assume that STALE_PERCENT is 10 . You specify USE_STALE_PERCEMENT for INCREMENTAL_STALENESS . The partition has 5% DML changes. The database does not regather statistics. Assume a different case in which STALE_PERCENT is 10 . You specify USE_STALE_PERCEMENT for INCREMENTAL_STALENESS . However, in this case the partition is locked and has 20% of DML changes. Because the partition is locked, the database does not regather statistics. USE_LOCKED_STATS —Locked partitions or subpartitions statistics are never considered stale, regardless of DML changes. For example, assume that STALE_PERCENT is 10 . You specify 'USE_LOCKED_STATS, USE_STALE_PERCENT' . The partition, which is locked, has 20% DML changes. The partition is not considered stale. The database uses existing statistics to derive global statistics. ALLOW_MIXED_FORMAT —Adaptive sampling synopses and HyperLogLog synopses are permitted to coexist. NULL —A partition or subpartition is considered stale when it has any DML changes. For example, assume that STALE_PERCENT is 10 . You specify the value 'NULL' for INCREMENTAL_STALENESS . The partition has 5% of DML changes. The database regathers statistics. Note that the following two executions are different: EXEC DBMS_STATS.SET_TABLE_PREFS ('sh', 'sales', 'INCREMENTAL_STALENESS', 'NULL'); EXEC DBMS_STATS.SET_TABLE_PREFS ('sh', 'sales', 'INCREMENTAL_STALENESS', null); The first execution uses single quotes to set the preference to the value NULL , whereas the second sets the preference to the default, which is ALLOW_MIXED_FORMAT . METHOD_OPT Controls column statistics collection and histogram creation. When setting preferences at the global, schema, database, or dictionary level, only FOR ALL syntax is allowed: FOR ALL [INDEXED | HIDDEN] COLUMNS [size_clause] The size_clause is defined as size_clause := SIZE {integer | REPEAT | AUTO | SKEWONLY} integer — Specifies the number of histogram buckets. The number must be between 1 and 2048. REPEAT — Collects histograms only on the columns that already have histograms. AUTO — Determines the columns on which to collect histograms based on data distribution and the workload of the columns. SKEWONLY — Determines the columns on which to collect histograms based on the data distribution of the columns. The default is FOR ALL COLUMNS SIZE AUTO . You can change the value using the SET_DATABASE_PREFS Procedure , SET_GLOBAL_PREFS Procedure , SET_SCHEMA_PREFS Procedure and SET_TABLE_PREFS Procedure . NO_INVALIDATE Controls the invalidation of dependent cursors when statistics are gathered. The parameter takes the following values: TRUE : Dependent cursors are not invalidated. FALSE : Dependent cursors are marked for immediate invalidation. AUTO : This is the default value. Rolling invalidation is used to invalidate all dependent cursors over a period of time. The performance impact on the database is reduced especially in cases where a large number of cursors are invalidated. If set to TRUE , then the database not invalidate dependent cursors. If set to FALSE , then the procedure invalidates dependent cursors immediately. OPTIONS Determines the options parameter used in the GATHER_TABLE_STATS procedure. The preference takes the following values: GATHER — Gathers statistics for all objects in the table. This is the default. GATHER AUTO — Oracle recommends using GATHER AUTO to gather necessary statistics, such as histograms, after a table has been bulk loaded and acquired online statistics. This is applicable only to tables that are not using INCREMENTAL statistics. For partitioned tables using INCREMENTAL statistics, GATHER_TABLE_STATS with GATHER AUTO will gather statistics for a table if it is marked stale or has no statistics. In addition, statistics will be gathered for partitions and sub-partitions that are marked stale or have no statistics. For tables not using INCREMENTAL statistics, GATHER_TABLE_STATS with GATHER AUTO may gather statistics for partitions and sub-partitions, even if they are not marked stale. PREFERENCE_OVERRIDES_PARAMETER Determines whether to override the input value of a parameter with the preference value of that parameter for a statistics operation. Possible values are: TRUE — Ignores input parameter values, and uses the value of the corresponding preference. FALSE — Obeys input parameter values. Specifying this preference does not change the order of precedence of table, global, and default. PUBLISH Determines whether the database publishes newly gathered statistics after the gathering job completes. You can gather statistics without publishing them immediately. This technique enables you to test new statistics before publishing them. STALE_PERCENT Determines the percentage of rows in a table that must change before the statistics on that table are stale and need to be regathered. The valid domain for stale_percent is non-negative numbers. The default value is 10 , which means that a table having more than 10% of changes is considered stale. STAT_CATEGORY Specifies which statistics to import or export, accepting multiple values separated by a comma. Values supported: OBJECT_STATS - table statistics, column statistics and index statistics (default) SYNOPSES - information to support incremental statistics The value 'OBJECT_STATS, SYNOPSES' specifies table statistics, column statistics, index statistics, and synopses. TABLE_CACHED_BLOCKS Specifies the average number of blocks assumed to be cached in the buffer cache when calculating the index clustering factor. The preference applies only when gathering statistics using DBMS_STATS . Index statistics gathered during CREATE INDEX or REBUILD INDEX operations will use the default value 1. WAIT_TIME_TO_UPDATE_STATS Specifies the number of minutes before timing out for locks and pins required for updating statistics. It accepts values in the range 0 to 65535 . The default value is 15 minutes. The value 0 gets the locks and pins in no-wait mode. Security Model No special privilege or role is needed to invoke this procedure. To gather statistics concurrently, however, you must either have the DBA role, or have the following privileges in addition to privileges that are required for gathering statistics: CREATE JOB , MANAGE SCHEDULER , and MANAGE ANY QUEUE . Exceptions ORA-20000 : Unable to gather statistics concurrently: Resource Manager is not enabled. ORA-20001 : Invalid input values Usage Notes Note the following guidelines: The CONCURRENT preference determines whether statistics are gathered concurrently when the user issues GATHER_*_STATS procedures. DBMS_STATS can collect statistics for a single object in parallel based on the value of the DEGREE parameter. However, parallelism is limited to one object. The CONCURRENT preference extends the scope of parallelism to multiple database objects. This approach is primarily intended for multi-CPU systems, and may not be suitable for small databases on single-CPU computers. To gather statistics concurrently, Resource Manager must be enabled, and the setting for the JOB_QUEUE_PROCESSES initialization parameter must be at least 4 . If the ownname and tabname are provided, and if a preference has been entered for the table, then the function returns the preference as specified for the table. In all other cases, it returns the global preference if it has been specified, otherwise it returns the default value. See Also: Oracle Database SQL Tuning Guide to learn how to get optimizer statistics preferences