---
id: 19c__CHANGES.NEW
name: CHANGES.NEW
object_type: plsql_subprogram
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: CHANGES
tags: [changes]
source_file: release-changes.html
---

# CHANGES.NEW

This section lists the major new features in Oracle Database release 19c PL/SQL Packages and Types Reference .

## Usage Notes

The following features are new in Oracle Database release 19c, version 19.1: ANYTYPE TYPE The GETANYTYPEFROMPERSISTENT function replaces GETPERISTENT static function. See GETANYTYPEFROMPERSISTENT Function DBMS_ADDM Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM) support for pluggable databases (PDBs). You can now use ADDM to analyze AWR data in PDBs for identifying and resolving performance related issues. Two new parameters, CDB_TYPE_OVERRIDE and READ_ONLY_TYPE_OVERRIDE added to the following subprograms to the DBMS_ADDM package: ANALYZE_DB Procedure ANALYZE_INST Procedure ANALYZE_PARTIAL Procedure COMPARE_CAPTURE_REPL AY_REPORT Function COMPARE_DATABASES Function COMPARE_INSTANCES Function COMPARE_REPLAY_REPLA Y_REPORT Function REAL_TIME_ADDM_REPORT Function DBMS_AUTO_INDEX The new package DBMS_AUTO_INDEX provides an interface for configuring auto indexes and generating reports containing the details of the executed automatic indexing operations in a database. See " DBMS_AUTO_INDEX " DBMS_CREDENTIAL You can also use the DBMS_CREDENTIAL.CREATE_CREDENTIAL procedure to manage the credentials for cloud object storage. The credential parameter of impdb specifies the name of a credential object that contains the user name and password required to access an object store bucket. You can also specify a default credential using the database property DEFAULT_CREDENTIAL . DBMS_HADOOP Oracle Database now supports hybrid partitioned tables. A hybrid partitioned table is a partitioned table in which some partitions reside in the database and some partitions reside outside the database in external files, such as operating system files or Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS) files. A new procedure CREATE_HYBRID_PARTNED_TABLE is added to the DBMS_HADOOP package. DBMS_INMEMORY_ADMIN A new function POPULATE_WAIT is added to DBMS_INMEMORY_ADMIN package. This function ensures that the specified In-Memory objects have been populated before allowing application access. DBMS_MEMOPTIMIZE The following new subprograms are added to the DBMS_MEMOPTIMIZE package as part of the Memoptimized Rowstore fast ingest feature: GET_APPLY_HWM_SEQID GET_WRITE_HWM_SEQID WRITE_END See " DBMS_MEMOPTIMIZE " DBMS_MEMOPTIMIZE_ADMIN The new package DBMS_MEMOPTIMIZE_ADMIN provides an interface for flushing the Memoptimized Rowstore data buffered in the large pool to disk. See " DBMS_MEMOPTIMIZE_ADMIN " DBMS_METADATA The following new transform parameters which are used by the metadata layer of datapump are added to the DBMS_METADATA.SET_TRANSFORM_PARAM procedure: OMIT_ENCRYPTION_CLAUSE DWCS_CVT_IOTS DWCS_CVT_CONSTRAINTS CONSTRAINT_USE_DEFAULT_INDEXES CONSTRAINT_NAME_FROM_INDEXES DBMS_MVIEW Oracle Database now supports hybrid partitioned tables. A hybrid partitioned table is a partitioned table in which some partitions reside in the database and some partitions reside outside the database in external files, such as operating system files or Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS) files. A new parameter, SKIP_EXT_DATA , is added to the DBMS_MVIEW.REFRESH procedure. DBMS_SQLQ The new package DBMS_SQLQ provides an interface for configuring quarantine thresholds for SQL statements and their execution plans. The SQL statements that cross the quarantine thresholds are quarantined and are not allowed to run again in a database. See " DBMS_SQLQ " DBMS_SQLDIAG New SQL Repair Advisor function DBMS_SQLDIAG.SQL_DIAGNOSE_AND_REPAIR The new SQL Repair Advisor function DBMS_SQLDIAG.SQL_DIAGNOSE_AND_REPAIR creates a diagnostic task, executes it, and accepts SQL patch recommendation for a SQL statement that is generating a critical error. This function helps users to diagnose and fix problems. DBMS_SODA DBMS_SODA is a PL/SQL package implementing Simple Oracle Document Access (SODA) which allows you to use the Oracle Database as a NoSQL document store. Additional functions and features are added in this release. DBMS_STATS A new boolean parameter REALTIME_STATS is added to GET_TABLE_STATS and GET_COLUMN_STATS procedures. DBMS_XPLAN New COMPARE_PLANS function added to the DBMS_XPLAN package. This function compares each plan in a list with a reference plan and returns the report. Key-based Messaging The following new parameters are added to the GET_QUEUE_PARAMETER , SET_QUEUE_PARAMETER , and UNSET_QUEUE_PARAMETER procedures of the DBMS_AQADM package as part of the Key-based messaging feature: Sharded queue parameters SHARD_NUM KEY_BASED_ENQUEUE STICKY_DEQUEUE Key-based parameters AQ$KEY_TO_SHARD_MAP AQ$GET_KEY_SHARD_INST See " DBMS_AQADM " Changes in Oracle Database Release 19c, Version 19.9 The following features are new in Oracle Database release 19c, version 19.9: Support for DBMS_CRYPTO Asymmetric Key Operations Starting with this release, the DBMS_CRYPTO PL/SQL package supports asymmetric key operations, in addition to the existing support for symmetric key operations. To implement the support for asymmetric key operations, the following procedures have been added to the DBMS_CRYPTO package: PKENCRYPT PKDECRYPT SIGN VERIFY See DBMS_CRYPTO . Changes in Oracle Database Release 19c, Version 19.10 The following features are new in Oracle Database release 19c, version 19.10: DBMS_CLOUD The DBMS_CLOUD package provides a comprehensive support for working with data in Object Storage. Blockchain tables are append-only tables in which only insert operations are allowed. Deleting rows is either prohibited or restricted based on time. Rows in a blockchain table are made tamper-resistant by special sequencing & chaining algorithms. Users can verify that rows have not been tampered. A hash value that is part of the row metadata is used to chain and validate rows. Blockchain tables enable you to implement a centralized ledger model where all participants in the blockchain network have access to the same tamper-resistant ledger. The following new packages are available in this release: DBMS_BLOCKCHAIN_TABLE DBMS_USER_CERTS DBMS_LOGMNR subprograms ADD_LOGFILE Procedure and START_LOGMNR Procedure modified to support per-PDB Capture for Oracle Autonomous Database. Changes in Oracle Database Release 19c, Version 19.11 The following features are new in Oracle Database release 19c, version 19.11: DBMS_IMMUTABLE_TABLE Immutable tables are read-only tables that protect data against unauthorized modification. They also prevent against accidental data modifications that may be caused by human errors. The DBMS_IMMUTABLE_TABLE package allows you to delete the expired rows in an immutable table. New subprograms are added to DBMS_SODA and SODA Types . A new procedure, ACCHK_VIEWS , is added to the DBMS_APP_CONT_ADMIN package. This procedure is available for the 19c release only.