---
id: 19c__DBMS_DATA_MINING.COMPUTE_CONFUSION_MATRIX_PART
name: DBMS_DATA_MINING.COMPUTE_CONFUSION_MATRIX_PART
object_type: plsql_procedure
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_DATA_MINING
tags: [dbms_data_mining]
source_file: DBMS_DATA_MINING.html
---

# DBMS_DATA_MINING.COMPUTE_CONFUSION_MATRIX_PART

The COMPUTE_CONFUSION_MATRIX_PART procedure computes a confusion matrix, stores it in a table in the user's schema, and returns the model accuracy.

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_DATA_MINING.compute_confusion_matrix_part(
      accuracy                    OUT DM_NESTED_NUMERICALS,
      apply_result_table_name     IN  VARCHAR2,
      target_table_name           IN  VARCHAR2,
      case_id_column_name         IN  VARCHAR2,
      target_column_name          IN  VARCHAR2,
      confusion_matrix_table_name IN  VARCHAR2,
      score_column_name           IN  VARCHAR2 DEFAULT 'PREDICTION',
      score_criterion_column_name IN  VARCHAR2 DEFAULT 'PROBABILITY',
      score_partition_column_name IN  VARCHAR2 DEFAULT 'PARTITION_NAME',
      cost_matrix_table_name      IN  VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL,
      apply_result_schema_name    IN  VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL,
      target_schema_name          IN  VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL,
      cost_matrix_schema_name     IN  VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL,
      score_criterion_type        IN  VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL);
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Mode | Description |
|-----------|------|------|-------------|
| accuracy | DM_NESTED_NUMERICALS | OUT | Output parameter containing the overall percentage accuracy of the predictions The output argument is changed from NUMBER to DM_NESTED_NUMERICALS |
| apply_result_table_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Table containing the predictions |
| target_table_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Table containing the known target values from the test data |
| case_id_column_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Case ID column in the apply results table. Must match the case identifier in the targets table. |
| target_column_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Target column in the targets table. Contains the known target values from the test data. |
| confusion_matrix_table_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Table containing the confusion matrix. The table will be created by the procedure in the user's schema. The columns in the confusion matrix table are described in the Usage Notes. |
| score_column_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Column containing the predictions in the apply results table. The default column name is PREDICTION , which is the default name created by the APPLY procedure (See " APPLY Procedure " ). |
| score_criterion_column_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Column containing the scoring criterion in the apply results table. Contains either the probabilities or the costs that determine the predictions. By default, scoring is based on probability; the class with the highest probability is predicted for each case. If scoring is based on cost, then the class with the lowest cost is predicted. The score_criterion_type parameter indicates whether probabilities or costs will be used for scoring. The default column name is PROBABILITY , which is the default name created by the APPLY procedure (See " APPLY Procedure " ). See the Usage Notes for additional information. |
| score_partition_column_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | (Optional) Parameter indicating the column which contains the name of the partition. This column slices the input test results such that each partition has independent evaluation matrices computed. |
| cost_matrix_table_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | (Optional) Table that defines the costs associated with misclassifications. If a cost matrix table is provided and the score_criterion_type parameter is set to COSTS , the costs in this table will be used as the scoring criteria. The columns in a cost matrix table are described in the Usage Notes. |
| apply_result_schema_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Schema of the apply results table. If null, then the user's schema is assumed. |
| target_schema_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Schema of the table containing the known targets. If null, then the user's schema is assumed. |
| cost_matrix_schema_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Schema of the cost matrix table, if one is provided. If null, then the user's schema is assumed. |
| score_criterion_type | VARCHAR2 | IN | Whether to use probabilities or costs as the scoring criterion. Probabilities or costs are passed in the column identified in the score_criterion_column_name parameter. The default value of score_criterion_type is PROBABILITY . To use costs as the scoring criterion, specify COST . If score_criterion_type is set to COST but no cost matrix is provided and if there is a scoring cost matrix associated with the model, then the associated costs are used for scoring. See the Usage Notes and the Examples. |

## Usage Notes

COMPUTE_CONFUSION_MATRIX_PART provides support to computation of evaluation metrics per-partition for partitioned models. For non-partitioned models, refer to COMPUTE_CONFUSION_MATRIX Procedure . A confusion matrix is a test metric for Classification models. It compares the predictions generated by the model with the actual target values in a set of test data. The confusion matrix lists the number of times each class was correctly predicted and the number of times it was predicted to be one of the other classes. COMPUTE_CONFUSION_MATRIX_PART accepts three input streams: The predictions generated on the test data. The information is passed in three columns: Case ID column Prediction column Scoring criterion column containing either probabilities or costs The known target values in the test data. The information is passed in two columns: Case ID column Target column containing the known target values (Optional) A cost matrix table with predefined columns. See the Usage Notes for the column requirements. See Also: Oracle Data Mining Concepts for more details about confusion matrixes and other test metrics for classification " COMPUTE_LIFT_PART Procedure " " COMPUTE_ROC_PART Procedure " See Also: Oracle Data Mining Concepts for more details about confusion matrixes and other test metrics for classification " COMPUTE_LIFT_PART Procedure " " COMPUTE_ROC_PART Procedure " Syntax DBMS_DATA_MINING.compute_confusion_matrix_part( accuracy OUT DM_NESTED_NUMERICALS, apply_result_table_name IN VARCHAR2, target_table_name IN VARCHAR2, case_id_column_name IN VARCHAR2, target_column_name IN VARCHAR2, confusion_matrix_table_name IN VARCHAR2, score_column_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT 'PREDICTION', score_criterion_column_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT 'PROBABILITY', score_partition_column_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT 'PARTITION_NAME', cost_matrix_table_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, apply_result_schema_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, target_schema_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, cost_matrix_schema_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, score_criterion_type IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL); Parameters Table 47-49 COMPUTE_CONFUSION_MATRIX_PART Procedure Parameters Parameter Description accuracy Output parameter containing the overall percentage accuracy of the predictions The output argument is changed from NUMBER to DM_NESTED_NUMERICALS apply_result_table_name Table containing the predictions target_table_name Table containing the known target values from the test data case_id_column_name Case ID column in the apply results table. Must match the case identifier in the targets table. target_column_name Target column in the targets table. Contains the known target values from the test data. confusion_matrix_table_name Table containing the confusion matrix. The table will be created by the procedure in the user's schema. The columns in the confusion matrix table are described in the Usage Notes. score_column_name Column containing the predictions in the apply results table. The default column name is PREDICTION , which is the default name created by the APPLY procedure (See " APPLY Procedure " ). score_criterion_column_name Column containing the scoring criterion in the apply results table. Contains either the probabilities or the costs that determine the predictions. By default, scoring is based on probability; the class with the highest probability is predicted for each case. If scoring is based on cost, then the class with the lowest cost is predicted. The score_criterion_type parameter indicates whether probabilities or costs will be used for scoring. The default column name is PROBABILITY , which is the default name created by the APPLY procedure (See " APPLY Procedure " ). See the Usage Notes for additional information. score_partition_column_name (Optional) Parameter indicating the column which contains the name of the partition. This column slices the input test results such that each partition has independent evaluation matrices computed. cost_matrix_table_name (Optional) Table that defines the costs associated with misclassifications. If a cost matrix table is provided and the score_criterion_type parameter is set to COSTS , the costs in this table will be used as the scoring criteria. The columns in a cost matrix table are described in the Usage Notes. apply_result_schema_name Schema of the apply results table. If null, then the user's schema is assumed. target_schema_name Schema of the table containing the known targets. If null, then the user's schema is assumed. cost_matrix_schema_name Schema of the cost matrix table, if one is provided. If null, then the user's schema is assumed. score_criterion_type Whether to use probabilities or costs as the scoring criterion. Probabilities or costs are passed in the column identified in the score_criterion_column_name parameter. The default value of score_criterion_type is PROBABILITY . To use costs as the scoring criterion, specify COST . If score_criterion_type is set to COST but no cost matrix is provided and if there is a scoring cost matrix associated with the model, then the associated costs are used for scoring. See the Usage Notes and the Examples. Usage Notes The predictive information you pass to COMPUTE_CONFUSION_MATRIX_PART may be generated using SQL PREDICTION functions, the DBMS_DATA_MINING.APPLY procedure, or some other mechanism. As long as you pass the appropriate data, the procedure can compute the confusion matrix. Instead of passing a cost matrix to COMPUTE_CONFUSION_MATRIX_PART , you can use a scoring cost matrix associated with the model. A scoring cost matrix can be embedded in the model or it can be defined dynamically when the model is applied. To use a scoring cost matrix, invoke the SQL PREDICTION_COST function to populate the score criterion column. The predictions that you pass to COMPUTE_CONFUSION_MATRIX_PART are in a table or view specified in apply_result_table_name . CREATE TABLE apply_result_table_name AS ( case_id_column_name VARCHAR2, score_column_name VARCHAR2, score_criterion_column_name VARCHAR2); A cost matrix must have the columns described in Table 47-47 . Table 47-50 Columns in a Cost Matrix Column Name Datatype actual_target_value Type of the target column in the test data predicted_target_value Type of the predicted target in the test data. The type of the predicted target must be the same as the type of the actual target unless the predicted target has an associated reverse transformation. cost BINARY_DOUBLE See Also: Oracle Data Mining User's Guide for valid target datatypes Oracle Data Mining Concepts for more information about cost matrixes The confusion matrix created by COMPUTE_CONFUSION_MATRIX_PART has the columns described in Table 47-48 . Table 47-51 Columns in a Confusion Matrix Part Column Name Datatype actual_target_value Type of the target column in the test data predicted_target_value Type of the predicted target in the test data. The type of the predicted target is the same as the type of the actual target unless the predicted target has an associated reverse transformation. value BINARY_DOUBLE See Also: Oracle Data Mining Concepts for more information about confusion matrixes