---
id: 19c__DBMS_SPM.CONFIGURE
name: DBMS_SPM.CONFIGURE
object_type: plsql_procedure
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_SPM
tags: [dbms_spm]
source_file: DBMS_SPM.html
---

# DBMS_SPM.CONFIGURE

This procedure sets configuration options for the SQL management base and for the maintenance of SQL plan baselines. You can call this function multiple times, setting a different configuration option each time.

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_SPM.CONFIGURE (
   parameter_name    IN VARCHAR2,
   parameter_value   IN VARCHAR2 := NULL,
   allow             IN BOOLEAN := TRUE);
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Mode | Description |
|-----------|------|------|-------------|
| parameter_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Name of parameter to set (see table below). |
| parameter_value | VARCHAR2 | IN | Value of parameter to use (see table below). The maximum length of parameter_value is 1000 characters. |
| allow | BOOLEAN | IN | Whether to include ( true ) or exclude ( false ) matching SQL statements and plans for the auto_capture_ * parameters. If null, then the procedure ignores the specified parameter. |

## Usage Notes

Syntax DBMS_SPM.CONFIGURE ( parameter_name IN VARCHAR2, parameter_value IN VARCHAR2 := NULL, allow IN BOOLEAN := TRUE); Parameters Table 161-7 CONFIGURE Procedure Parameters Parameter Description parameter_name Name of parameter to set (see table below). parameter_value Value of parameter to use (see table below). The maximum length of parameter_value is 1000 characters. allow Whether to include ( true ) or exclude ( false ) matching SQL statements and plans for the auto_capture_ * parameters. If null, then the procedure ignores the specified parameter. Table 161-8 Names and Values for CONFIGURE Procedure Parameters Parameter Name Description Possible Values auto_capture_action Action to include ( = ) or exclude ( <> ) for SQL plan management automatic capture, depending on whether allow is TRUE or FALSE . A null value removes the filter for parameter_name entirely. Action name, for example, R% auto_capture_module Module to include ( = ) or exclude ( <> ) for SQL plan management auto capture, depending on whether allow is TRUE or FALSE . A null value removes the filter for parameter_name entirely. The database only uses this filter when OPTIMIZER_CAPTURE_SQL_PLAN_BASELINES is TRUE . Module name, for example, LOGGER auto_capture_parsing_schema_name Parsing schema to include ( = ) or exclude ( <> ) for SQL plan management auto capture, depending on whether allow is TRUE or FALSE . A null value removes the filter for parameter_name entirely. The database only uses this filter when OPTIMIZER_CAPTURE_SQL_PLAN_BASELINES is TRUE . Schema name, for example, HR auto_capture_sql_text Search pattern to apply to SQL text of LIKE or NOT LIKE , depending on whether allow is TRUE or FALSE . A null value removes the filter for parameter_name entirely. The database only uses this filter when OPTIMIZER_CAPTURE_SQL_PLAN_BASELINES is TRUE . Text of a SQL statement, for example, SELECT a% auto_spm_evolve_task Setting to enable or disable the high-frequency SPM Evolve Advisor task. The high-frequency task runs every hour and runs for no longer than 30 minutes. These settings are not configurable. The frequent executions mean that the optimizer has more opportunities to find and evolve better performing plans. The default value is OFF , which means the high-frequency SPM Evolve Advisor task is disabled. In this release, AUTO is equivalent to OFF . The value of allow is ignored. Note: See Oracle Database Licensing Information User Manual for details on which features are supported for different editions and services . ON , OFF , AUTO plan_retention_weeks Number of weeks to retain unused plans before the database purges them. A null value resets to the default value of 53 weeks, or 1 year plus 1 week. (This retains plans for annually executing queries.) The value of allow is ignored. 5–523 (default is 53) space_budget_percent Maximum percent of SYSAUX space that can be used for SQL management base. The database issues alerts when this amount is exceeded. A null value resets the percentage to the default value of 10%. The value of allow is ignored. 1–50 (default is 10) Exceptions Table 161-9 CONFIGURE Exceptions Error Number Description ORA-38133 Invalid parameter name ORA-38134 Invalid parameter value ORA-38150 Not enough space for new filter ORA-38151 Module name too long ORA-38152 Action name too long ORA-38304 Missing or invalid user name Usage Notes When parameter_name is auto_capture_sql_text , the parameter_value is an automatic search filter. The filter uses the search pattern of LIKE parameter_name when allow=>true . The filter uses the pattern NOT LIKE parameter_name when allow=>false . For all other non-null parameter_name values, the search pattern depends on the allow setting. The parameter uses an equal sign ( = ) when allow=>true . The parameter uses a not-equal sign ( <> ) when allow=>false . You can configure multiple automatic capture parameters of different types. You cannot specify multiple values for the same parameter. Instead, the values specified for a particular parameter are combined. For example, specifying auto_capture_sql_text to be ' %TABLE1% ', TRUE , and ' %TABLE2% ', FALSE will result in matching SQL text LIKE '%TABLE1%' and NOT LIKE '%TABLE2%' . The database uses these configuration settings only when the initialization parameter OPTIMIZER_CAPTURE_SQL_PLAN_BASELINES is set to TRUE . A null value for parameter_value removes the filter for parameter_name entirely. By using paramter_value=>'%' in combination with allow=FALSE , you can filter out all values for a parameter, and then create a separate filter to include only specified values. The DBA_SQL_MANAGEMENT_CONFIG view shows the current filters. The default space budget for SQL management base is no more than ten percent of the size of SYSAUX tablespace. The space budget can be set to a maximum of 50%. The default unused plan retention period is one year and one week, which means a plan will be automatically purged if it has not been used for more than a year. The retention period can be set to a maximum of 523 weeks (i.e. a little over 10 years). When the space occupied by SQL management base exceeds the defined space budget limit, a weekly database alert is generated. Examples The following example creates a filter for SQL text that is like SELECT a% : EXEC DBMS_SPM.CONFIGURE('AUTO_CAPTURE_SQL_TEXT', 'select a%', 'TRUE'); The following example filters out the HR parsing schema: EXEC DBMS_SPM.CONFIGURE('AUTO_CAPTURE_PARSING_SCHEMA_NAME', 'HR', 'FALSE'); The following example removes any existing filters for SQL text: EXEC DBMS_SPM.CONFIGURE('AUTO_CAPTURE_SQL_TEXT', NULL, NULL); The following example removes any LIKE or NOT LIKE filters for the SQL text select a% : EXEC DBMS_SPM.CONFIGURE('AUTO_CAPTURE_SQL_TEXT', 'select a%', NULL); The following example creates a filter with the predicate (action LIKE 'R%') OR (action LIKE '%E_') : EXEC DBMS_SPM.CONFIGURE('AUTO_CAPTURE_ACTION', 'R%', 'TRUE'); EXEC DBMS_SPM.CONFIGURE('AUTO_CAPTURE_ACTION', '%E_', 'TRUE'); The following example creates a filter with the predicate NOT(module LIKE 'LOGGER') AND NOT(module LIKE 'UTIL__') : EXEC DBMS_SPM.CONFIGURE('AUTO_CAPTURE_MODULE', 'LOGGER', 'FALSE'); EXEC DBMS_SPM.CONFIGURE('AUTO_CAPTURE_MODULE', 'UTIL__', 'FALSE');