---
id: 19c__DBMS_XMLSCHEMA.REGISTERSCHEMA
name: DBMS_XMLSCHEMA.REGISTERSCHEMA
object_type: plsql_subprogram
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_XMLSCHEMA
tags: [dbms_xmlschema]
source_file: DBMS_XMLSCHEMA.html
---

# DBMS_XMLSCHEMA.REGISTERSCHEMA

This procedure registers the specified schema for use by the database.

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_XMLSCHEMA.REGISTERSCHEMA(
    schemaurl        IN  VARCHAR2,
    schemadoc        IN  VARCHAR2,
    local            IN  BOOLEAN := TRUE,
    gentypes         IN  BOOLEAN := TRUE,
    genbean          IN  BOOLEAN := FALSE,
    gentables        IN  BOOLEAN := TRUE,
    force            IN  BOOLEAN := FALSE,
    owner            IN  VARCHAR2 := NULL,
    enablehierarchy  IN  PLS_INTEGER := DBMS_XMLSCHEMA.ENABLE_CONTENTS,
    options          IN  PLS_INTEGER := 0);
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Mode | Description |
|-----------|------|------|-------------|
| schemaurl | VARCHAR2 | IN | URL that uniquely identifies the schema document. This value is used to derive the path name of the schema document within the database hierarchy. Can be used inside schemalocation attribute of XML Schema import element. |
| schemadoc | VARCHAR2 | IN | A valid XML schema document |
| local | BOOLEAN | IN | Is this a local or global schema? By default, all schemas are registered as local schemas, under /sys/schemas/<username>/... If a schema is registered as global, it is added under /sys/schemas/PUBLIC/... You need write privileges on the directory to be able to register a schema as global. |
| gentypes | BOOLEAN | IN | Determines whether the schema compiler generates object types. By default, TRUE. If you use binary XML, you must be set gentypes to FALSE . |
| genbean | BOOLEAN | IN | Determines whether the schema compiler generates Java beans. By default, FALSE . Oracle recommends that this parameter always be set to FALSE . |
| gentables | BOOLEAN | IN | Determines whether the schema compiler generates default tables. By default, TRUE |
| force | BOOLEAN | IN | If this parameter is set to TRUE , the schema registration will not raise errors. Instead, it creates an invalid XML schema object in case of any errors. By default, the value of this parameter is FALSE . |
| owner | VARCHAR2 | IN | This parameter specifies the name of the database user owning the XML schema object. By default, the user registering the schema owns the XML schema object. This parameter can be used to register a XML schema to be owned by a different database user. |
| csid |  |  | Identifies the character set of the input schema document. If this value is 0 , the schema document's encoding is determined by the current rule for "text/xml" MIME type. |
| enablehierarchy | PLS_INTEGER | IN | ENABLE_HIERARCHY_NONE - enable hierarchy will not be called on any tables created while registering that schema ENABLE_HIERARCHY_CONTENTS - enable hierarchy will be called for all tables created during schema registration with hierarchy_type as DBMS_XDBZ . ENABLE_CONTENTS . This is the default. ENABLE_HIERARCHY_RESMETADATA - enable hierarchy will be called on all tables created during schema registration with hierarchy_type as DBMS_XDBZ . ENABLE_RESMETADATA . Users should pass in DBMS_XMLSCHEMA . ENABLE_RESMETADATA for schemas they intend to use as resource metadata tables. |
| options | PLS_INTEGER | IN | Additional options to specify how the schema should be registered. The various options are represented as bits of an integer and the options parameter should be constructed by doing a BITOR of the desired bits. Possible bits: REGISTER_NODOCID - this will suppress the creation of the DOCID column for out of line tables. This is a storage optimization which might be desirable when we do not need to join back to the document table (for example if we do not care about rewriting certain queries that could be rewritten by making use of the DOCID column) REGISTER_BINARYXML - Register the schema for Binary XML REGISTER_NT_AS_IOT - Store nested tables created during schema registration as index organized tables. The default is to store nested tables as heap tables |

## Usage Notes

The procedure is overloaded. The different functionality of each form of syntax is presented along with the definition. Note: As of Oracle Database 11 g Release 2 (11.2) the genbean parameter is deprecated. Oracle recommends that you do not use this parameter in new applications. Support for this feature is for backward compatibility only. See Also: "XMLSCHEMA Storage and Query: Basic" chapter of the Oracle XML DB Developer's Guide Note: As of Oracle Database 11 g Release 2 (11.2) the genbean parameter is deprecated. Oracle recommends that you do not use this parameter in new applications. Support for this feature is for backward compatibility only. See Also: "XMLSCHEMA Storage and Query: Basic" chapter of the Oracle XML DB Developer's Guide Syntax Registers a schema specified as a VARCHAR2 : DBMS_XMLSCHEMA.REGISTERSCHEMA( schemaurl IN VARCHAR2, schemadoc IN VARCHAR2, local IN BOOLEAN := TRUE, gentypes IN BOOLEAN := TRUE, genbean IN BOOLEAN := FALSE, gentables IN BOOLEAN := TRUE, force IN BOOLEAN := FALSE, owner IN VARCHAR2 := NULL, enablehierarchy IN PLS_INTEGER := DBMS_XMLSCHEMA.ENABLE_CONTENTS, options IN PLS_INTEGER := 0); Registers the schema specified as a BFILE . The contents of the schema document must be in the database character set: DBMS_XMLSCHEMA.REGISTERSCHEMA( schemaurl IN VARCHAR2, schemadoc IN BFILE, local IN BOOLEAN := TRUE, gentypes IN BOOLEAN := TRUE, genbean IN BOOLEAN := FALSE, force IN BOOLEAN := FALSE, owner IN VARCHAR2 := NULL, enablehierarchy IN PLS_INTEGER := DBMS_XMLSCHEMA.ENABLE_CONTENTS, options IN PLS_INTEGER := 0); Registers the schema specified as a BFILE and identifies the character set id of the schema document: DBMS_XMLSCHEMA.REGISTERSCHEMA( schemaurl IN VARCHAR2, schemadoc IN BFILE, local IN BOOLEAN := TRUE, gentypes IN BOOLEAN := TRUE, genbean IN BOOLEAN := TRUE, gentables IN BOOLEAN := TRUE, force IN BOOLEAN := TRUE, owner IN VARCHAR2 := '', csid IN NUMBER, enablehierarchy IN PLS_INTEGER := DBMS_XMLSCHEMA.ENABLE_CONTENTS, options IN PLS_INTEGER := 0); Registers the schema specified as a BLOB . The contents of the schema document must be in the database character set: DBMS_XMLSCHEMA.REGISTERSCHEMA( schemaurl IN VARCHAR2, schemadoc IN BLOB, local IN BOOLEAN := TRUE, genTypes IN BOOLEAN := TRUE, genBean IN BOOLEAN := FASLE, force IN BOOLEAN := FALSE, owner IN VARCHAR2 := NULL, enablehierarchy IN PLS_INTEGER := DBMS_XMLSCHEMA.ENABLE_CONTENTS, options IN PLS_INTEGER := 0); Registers the schema specified as a BLOB and identifies the character set id of the schema document: DBMS_XMLSCHEMA.REGISTERSCHEMA( schemaurl IN VARCHAR2, schemadoc IN BLOB, local IN BOOLEAN := TRUE, gentypes IN BOOLEAN := TRUE, genbean IN BOOLEAN := TRUE, gentables IN BOOLEAN := TRUE, force IN BOOLEAN := TRUE, owner IN VARCHAR2 := '', csid IN NUMBER, enablehierarchy IN PLS_INTEGER := DBMS_XMLSCHEMA.ENABLE_CONTENTS, options IN PLS_INTEGER := 0); Registers the schema specified as a CLOB DBMS_XMLSCHEMA.REGISTERSCHEMA( schemaurl IN VARCHAR2, schemadoc IN CLOB, local IN BOOLEAN := TRUE, gentypes IN BOOLEAN := TRUE, genbean IN BOOLEAN := FALSE, force IN BOOLEAN := FALSE, owner IN VARCHAR2 := NULL, options IN PLS_INTEGER := 0); Registers the schema specified as an XMLTYPE . DBMS_XMLSCHEMA.REGISTERSCHEMA( schemaurl IN VARCHAR2, schemadoc IN SYS.XMLTYPE, local IN BOOLEAN := TRUE, gentypes IN BOOLEAN := TRUE, genbean IN BOOLEAN := FALSE, force IN BOOLEAN := FALSE, owner IN VARCHAR2 := NULL, enablehierarchy IN PLS_INTEGER := DBMS_XMLSCHEMA.ENABLE_CONTENTS, options IN PLS_INTEGER := 0); Registers the schema specified as a BLOB . The contents of the schema document must be in the database character set: DBMS_XMLSCHEMA.REGISTERSCHEMA( schemaurl IN VARCHAR2, schemadoc IN SYS.URIType, local IN BOOLEAN := TRUE, gentypes IN BOOLEAN := TRUE, genbean IN BOOLEAN := FALSE, force IN BOOLEAN := FALSE, owner IN VARCHAR2 := NULL, enablehierarchy IN PLS_INTEGER := DBMS_XMLSCHEMA.ENABLE_CONTENTS, options IN PLS_INTEGER := 0); Parameters Table 210-12 REGSITERSCHEMA Procedure Parameters Parameter Description schemaurl URL that uniquely identifies the schema document. This value is used to derive the path name of the schema document within the database hierarchy. Can be used inside schemalocation attribute of XML Schema import element. schemadoc A valid XML schema document local Is this a local or global schema? By default, all schemas are registered as local schemas, under /sys/schemas/<username>/... If a schema is registered as global, it is added under /sys/schemas/PUBLIC/... You need write privileges on the directory to be able to register a schema as global. gentypes Determines whether the schema compiler generates object types. By default, TRUE. If you use binary XML, you must be set gentypes to FALSE . genbean Determines whether the schema compiler generates Java beans. By default, FALSE . Oracle recommends that this parameter always be set to FALSE . gentables Determines whether the schema compiler generates default tables. By default, TRUE force If this parameter is set to TRUE , the schema registration will not raise errors. Instead, it creates an invalid XML schema object in case of any errors. By default, the value of this parameter is FALSE . owner This parameter specifies the name of the database user owning the XML schema object. By default, the user registering the schema owns the XML schema object. This parameter can be used to register a XML schema to be owned by a different database user. csid Identifies the character set of the input schema document. If this value is 0 , the schema document's encoding is determined by the current rule for "text/xml" MIME type. enablehierarchy ENABLE_HIERARCHY_NONE - enable hierarchy will not be called on any tables created while registering that schema ENABLE_HIERARCHY_CONTENTS - enable hierarchy will be called for all tables created during schema registration with hierarchy_type as DBMS_XDBZ . ENABLE_CONTENTS . This is the default. ENABLE_HIERARCHY_RESMETADATA - enable hierarchy will be called on all tables created during schema registration with hierarchy_type as DBMS_XDBZ . ENABLE_RESMETADATA . Users should pass in DBMS_XMLSCHEMA . ENABLE_RESMETADATA for schemas they intend to use as resource metadata tables. options Additional options to specify how the schema should be registered. The various options are represented as bits of an integer and the options parameter should be constructed by doing a BITOR of the desired bits. Possible bits: REGISTER_NODOCID - this will suppress the creation of the DOCID column for out of line tables. This is a storage optimization which might be desirable when we do not need to join back to the document table (for example if we do not care about rewriting certain queries that could be rewritten by making use of the DOCID column) REGISTER_BINARYXML - Register the schema for Binary XML REGISTER_NT_AS_IOT - Store nested tables created during schema registration as index organized tables. The default is to store nested tables as heap tables