---
id: 19c__DBMS_DATAPUMP.ADD_FILE
name: DBMS_DATAPUMP.ADD_FILE
object_type: plsql_procedure
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_DATAPUMP
tags: [dbms_datapump]
source_file: DBMS_DATAPUMP.html
---

# DBMS_DATAPUMP.ADD_FILE

This procedure adds files to the dump file set for an Export, Import, or SQL_FILE operation or specifies the log file or the output file for a SQL_FILE operation.

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_DATAPUMP.ADD_FILE (
   handle     IN NUMBER,
   filename   IN VARCHAR2,
   directory  IN VARCHAR2,
   filesize   IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL,
   filetype   IN NUMBER DEFAULT DBMS_DATAPUMP.KU$_FILE_TYPE_DUMP_FILE,
   reusefile  IN NUMBER DEFAULT NULL);
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Mode | Description |
|-----------|------|------|-------------|
| handle | NUMBER | IN | The handle of a job. The current session must have previously attached to the handle through a call to either the OPEN or ATTACH function. |
| filename | VARCHAR2 | IN | The name of the file being added. filename must be a simple filename without any directory path information. For dump files, the filename can include a substitution variable. See the following table for a description of available substitution variables. |
| directory | VARCHAR2 | IN | The name of a directory object within the database that is used to locate filename . A directory must be specified. |
| filesize | VARCHAR2 | IN | The size of the dump file that is being added. It may be specified as the number of bytes, number of kilobytes (if followed by K), number of megabytes (if followed by M), number of gigabytes (if followed by G) or number of terabytes (if followed by T). An Export operation will write no more than the specified number of bytes to the file. Once the file is full, it will be closed. If there is insufficient space on the device to write the specified number of bytes, the Export operation will fail, but it can be restarted. If not specified, filesize will default to an unlimited size. For Import and SQL_FILE operations, filesize is ignored. The minimum value for filesize is ten times the default Data Pump block size, which is 4 kilobytes. A filesize can only be specified for dump files. |
| filetype | NUMBER | IN | The type of the file to be added. The legal values are as follows and must be preceded by DBMS_DATAPUMP. : KU$_FILE_TYPE_DUMP_FILE (dump file for a job) KU$_FILE_TYPE_LOG_FILE (log file for a job) KU$_FILE_TYPE_SQL_FILE (output for SQL_FILE job) |
| reusefile | NUMBER | IN | If 0, a preexisting file will cause an error. If 1, a preexisting file will be overwritten. If NULL, the default action for the file type will be applied (that is, dump files will not be overwritten). This parameter should only be non-NULL for dump files. The reusefile parameter is restricted to export jobs. |

## Usage Notes

Syntax DBMS_DATAPUMP.ADD_FILE ( handle IN NUMBER, filename IN VARCHAR2, directory IN VARCHAR2, filesize IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, filetype IN NUMBER DEFAULT DBMS_DATAPUMP.KU$_FILE_TYPE_DUMP_FILE, reusefile IN NUMBER DEFAULT NULL); Parameters Table 49-2 ADD_FILE Procedure Parameters Parameter Description handle The handle of a job. The current session must have previously attached to the handle through a call to either the OPEN or ATTACH function. filename The name of the file being added. filename must be a simple filename without any directory path information. For dump files, the filename can include a substitution variable. See the following table for a description of available substitution variables. directory The name of a directory object within the database that is used to locate filename . A directory must be specified. filesize The size of the dump file that is being added. It may be specified as the number of bytes, number of kilobytes (if followed by K), number of megabytes (if followed by M), number of gigabytes (if followed by G) or number of terabytes (if followed by T). An Export operation will write no more than the specified number of bytes to the file. Once the file is full, it will be closed. If there is insufficient space on the device to write the specified number of bytes, the Export operation will fail, but it can be restarted. If not specified, filesize will default to an unlimited size. For Import and SQL_FILE operations, filesize is ignored. The minimum value for filesize is ten times the default Data Pump block size, which is 4 kilobytes. A filesize can only be specified for dump files. filetype The type of the file to be added. The legal values are as follows and must be preceded by DBMS_DATAPUMP. : KU$_FILE_TYPE_DUMP_FILE (dump file for a job) KU$_FILE_TYPE_LOG_FILE (log file for a job) KU$_FILE_TYPE_SQL_FILE (output for SQL_FILE job) reusefile If 0, a preexisting file will cause an error. If 1, a preexisting file will be overwritten. If NULL, the default action for the file type will be applied (that is, dump files will not be overwritten). This parameter should only be non-NULL for dump files. The reusefile parameter is restricted to export jobs. Substitution Variables Table 49-3 Substitution Variables Available for the Filename Parameter on DBMS_DATAPUMP.ADD_FILE Substitution Variable Description %U The %U is expanded in the resulting file names into a two-character, fixed-width, incrementing integer starting at 01. For example, the dump filename of export%U would cause export01 , export02 , export03 , and so on, to be created depending on how many files are needed to perform the export. For filenames containing the % character, the % must be represented as %% to avoid ambiguity. %d , %D Specifies the current day of the month from the Gregorian calendar in format DD . Note: This substitution variable cannot be used in an import file name. %m , %M Specifies the month in the Gregorian calendar in format MM . Note: This substitution variable cannot be used in an import file name. %t , %T Specifies the year, month, and day in the Gregorian calendar in this format: YYYYMMDD . Note: This substitution variable cannot be used in an import file name. %l , %L Specifies a system-generated unique file name. The file names can contain a substitution variable ( %L ), which implies that multiple files may be generated. The substitution variable is expanded in the resulting file names into a 2-digit, fixed-width, incrementing integer starting at 01 and ending at 99 which is the same as ( %U ). In addition, the substitution variable is expanded in the resulting file names into a 3-digit to 10-digit, variable-width, incrementing integers starting at 100 and ending at 2147483646. The width field is determined by the number of digits in the integer. For example if the current integer was 1, exp%Uaa%U.dmp would resolve to exp01aa01.dmp exp02aa02.dmp and so forth up until 99. Then, the next file name would have 3 digits substituted: exp100aa100.dmp exp101aa101.dmp and so forth up until 999 where the next file would have 4 digits substituted. The substitution will continue up to the largest number substitution allowed, which is 2147483646. %y , %Y Specifies the year in this format: YYYY. Note: This substitution variable cannot be used in an import file name. Exceptions INVALID_HANDLE . The specified handle is not attached to a Data Pump job. INVALID_ARGVAL . An invalid value was supplied for an input parameter. INVALID_STATE . The job is completing, or the job is past the defining state for an import or SQL_FILE job or is past the defining state for LOG and SQL files. INVALID_OPERATION . A dump file was specified for a Network Import or ESTIMATE_ONLY export operation. SUCCESS_WITH_INFO . The procedure succeeded, but further information is available through the GET_STATUS procedure. NO_SUCH_JOB . The specified job does not exist. Usage Notes Adds files to a Data Pump job. Three types of files may be added to jobs: Dump files to contain the data that is being moved, log files to record the messages associated with an operation, and SQL files to record the output of a SQL_FILE operation. Log and SQL files will overwrite previously existing files. Dump files will never overwrite previously existing files. Instead, an error will be generated. Import and SQL_FILE operations require that all dump files be specified during the definition phase of the job. For Export operations, dump files can be added at any time. For example, if the user ascertains that the file space is running low during an Export, additional dump files may be added through this API. If the specified dump file already exists for an Export operation and reusefile is not set to 1, an error will be returned. For Export operations, the parallelism setting should be less than or equal to the number of dump files in the dump file set. If there are not enough dump files, the job will not be able to maximize parallelism to the degree specified by the SET_PARALLEL procedure. For Import operations, the parallelism setting should also be less than or equal to the number of dump files in the dump file set. If there are not enough dump files, the performance will not be optimal as multiple threads of execution try to access the same dump file. If the substitution variable ( %U ) is included in a filename, multiple dump files may be specified through a single call to ADD_FILE . For Export operations, the new dump files will be created as they are needed. Enough dump files will be created to allow all of the processes specified by the current SET_PARALLEL value to be active. If one of the dump files fills, it will be closed and a new dump file (with a new generated name) will be created to take its place. If multiple ADD_FILE s with substitution variables have been specified for dump files in a job, they will be used to generate dump files in a round robin fashion. For example, if expa%U , expb%U and expc%U were all specified for a job having a parallelism of 6, the initial dump files created would look like: expa01 , expb01 , expc01 , expa02 , expb02 , and expc02 . If presented with dump file specifications, expa%U , expb%U and expc%U , an Import or SQL_FILE operation will begin by attempting to open the dump files, expa01 , expb01 , and expc01. If the dump file containing the master table is not found in this set, the operation will expand its search for dump files by incrementing the substitution variable and looking up the new filenames (for example, expa02 , expb02 , and expc02 ). The DataPump API will keep expanding the search until it locates the dump file containing the master table. If the DataPump API determines that the dump file does not exist or is not part of the current dump set at any iteration, the DataPump API will stop incrementing the substitution variable for the dump file specification that was in error. Once the master table is found, the master table will be used to ascertain when all of dump files in the dump file set have been located.