---
id: 19c__DBMS_MGWADM.ADD_SUBSCRIBER
name: DBMS_MGWADM.ADD_SUBSCRIBER
object_type: plsql_procedure
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_MGWADM
tags: [dbms_mgwadm]
source_file: DBMS_MGWADM.html
---

# DBMS_MGWADM.ADD_SUBSCRIBER

This procedure adds a subscriber used to consume messages from a source queue for propagation to a destination.

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_MGWADM.ADD_SUBSCRIBER(
   subscriber_id     IN VARCHAR2,
   propagation_type  IN BINARY_INTEGER,
   queue_name        IN VARCHAR2,
   destination       IN VARCHAR2,
   rule              IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL,
   transformation    IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL,
   exception_queue   IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL
   options           IN SYS.MGW_PROPERTIES DEFAULT NULL);
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Mode | Description |
|-----------|------|------|-------------|
| subscriber_id | VARCHAR2 | IN | Specifies a user-defined name that identifies this subscriber |
| propagation_type | BINARY_INTEGER | IN | Specifies the type of message propagation. DBMS_MGWADM.OUTBOUND_PROPAGATION is for Oracle Database Advanced Queuing to non-Oracle propagation. DBMS_MGWADM.INBOUND_PROPAGATION is for non-Oracle to Oracle Database Advanced Queuing propagation |
| queue_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Specifies the source queue to which this subscriber is being added. The syntax and interpretation of this parameter depend on the value specified for propagation_type . |
| destination | VARCHAR2 | IN | Specifies the destination queue to which messages consumed by this subscriber are propagated. The syntax and interpretation of this parameter depend on the value specified for propagation_type . |
| rule | VARCHAR2 | IN | Specifies an optional subscription rule used by the subscriber to dequeue messages from the source queue. This is NULL if no rule is needed. The syntax and interpretation of this parameter depend on the value specified for propagation_type . |
| transformation | VARCHAR2 | IN | Specifies the transformation needed to convert between the Oracle Database Advanced Queuing payload and an ADT defined by Messaging Gateway. The type of transformation needed depends on the value specified for propagation_type . If NULL , then the Oracle Database Advanced Queuing payload type must be supported by Messaging Gateway. |
| exception_queue | VARCHAR2 | IN | Specifies a queue used for exception message logging purposes. This queue must be on the same messaging system as the propagation source. If NULL, then an exception queue is not used and propagation stops if a problem occurs. The syntax and interpretation of this parameter depend on the value specified for propagation_type. The source queue and exception queue cannot be the same queue. |
| options | SYS.MGW_PROPERTIES | IN | Optional subscriber properties. NULL if there are none. Typically these are lesser used configuration properties supported by the messaging system. |

## Usage Notes

Note: This subprogram has been deprecated as a result of improved technology (see CREATE_JOB Procedure ), and is retained only for reasons of backward compatibility. Note: This subprogram has been deprecated as a result of improved technology (see CREATE_JOB Procedure ), and is retained only for reasons of backward compatibility. Syntax DBMS_MGWADM.ADD_SUBSCRIBER( subscriber_id IN VARCHAR2, propagation_type IN BINARY_INTEGER, queue_name IN VARCHAR2, destination IN VARCHAR2, rule IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, transformation IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, exception_queue IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL options IN SYS.MGW_PROPERTIES DEFAULT NULL); Parameters Table 110-20 ADD_SUBSCRIBER Procedure Parameters Parameter Description subscriber_id Specifies a user-defined name that identifies this subscriber propagation_type Specifies the type of message propagation. DBMS_MGWADM.OUTBOUND_PROPAGATION is for Oracle Database Advanced Queuing to non-Oracle propagation. DBMS_MGWADM.INBOUND_PROPAGATION is for non-Oracle to Oracle Database Advanced Queuing propagation queue_name Specifies the source queue to which this subscriber is being added. The syntax and interpretation of this parameter depend on the value specified for propagation_type . destination Specifies the destination queue to which messages consumed by this subscriber are propagated. The syntax and interpretation of this parameter depend on the value specified for propagation_type . rule Specifies an optional subscription rule used by the subscriber to dequeue messages from the source queue. This is NULL if no rule is needed. The syntax and interpretation of this parameter depend on the value specified for propagation_type . transformation Specifies the transformation needed to convert between the Oracle Database Advanced Queuing payload and an ADT defined by Messaging Gateway. The type of transformation needed depends on the value specified for propagation_type . If NULL , then the Oracle Database Advanced Queuing payload type must be supported by Messaging Gateway. exception_queue Specifies a queue used for exception message logging purposes. This queue must be on the same messaging system as the propagation source. If NULL, then an exception queue is not used and propagation stops if a problem occurs. The syntax and interpretation of this parameter depend on the value specified for propagation_type. The source queue and exception queue cannot be the same queue. options Optional subscriber properties. NULL if there are none. Typically these are lesser used configuration properties supported by the messaging system. Usage Notes See Also: "Handling Arbitrary Payload Types Using Message Transformations", in Oracle Database Advanced Queuing User's Guide for more information regarding message conversion and transformation If the non-Oracle messaging link being accessed for the subscriber uses a JMS interface, then the Messaging Gateway agent will use the Oracle JMS interface to access the Oracle Database Advanced Queuing queues. Otherwise the native Oracle Database Advanced Queuing interface will be used. Parameters are interpreted differently when the Messaging Gateway agent uses Oracle JMS for JMS connections. Transformations are not currently supported if the Oracle JMS interface is used for propagation. The transformation parameter must be NULL . See Also: For additional information regarding subscriber options "WebSphere MQ System Properties" in Oracle Database Advanced Queuing User's Guide "TIB/Rendezvous System Properties" in Oracle Database Advanced Queuing User's Guide OUTBOUND_PROPAGATION Subscribers The parameters for a subscriber used for outbound propagation are interpreted as follows: queue_name specifies the local Oracle Database Advanced Queuing queue that is the propagation source. This must have a syntax of schema.queue . destination specifies the foreign queue to which messages are propagated. This must have a syntax of registered_queue@message_link . rule specifies an optional Oracle Database Advanced Queuing subscriber rule if the native Oracle Database Advanced Queuing interface is used, or a JMS selector if the Oracle JMS interface is used. If NULL , then no rule or selector is used. transformation specifies the transformation used to convert the Oracle Database Advanced Queuing payload to an ADT defined by Messaging Gateway. Messaging Gateway propagation dequeues messages from the Oracle Database Advanced Queuing queue using the transformation to convert the Oracle Database Advanced Queuing payload to a known ADT defined by Messaging Gateway. The message is then enqueued in the foreign messaging system based on the Messaging Gateway ADT. exception_queue specifies the name of a local Oracle Database Advanced Queuing queue to which messages are moved if an exception occurs. This must have a syntax of schema.queue . If the native Oracle Database Advanced Queuing interface is used, then a subscriber will be added to the Oracle Database Advanced Queuing queue when this procedure is called, whether or not Messaging Gateway is running. The local subscriber will be of the form sys.aq$_agent('MGW_ subscriber_id ' , NULL, NULL) . If the Oracle JMS interface is used, then the Messaging Gateway agent will create a JMS durable subscriber with the name of MGW_ subscriber_id . If the agent is not running when this procedure is called, then the durable subscriber will be created the next time the agent starts. The exception queue has the following caveats: The user is responsible for creating the Oracle Database Advanced Queuing queue to be used as the exception queue. The payload type of the source and exception queue must match. The exception queue must be created as a queue type of DBMS_AQADM.NORMAL_QUEUE rather than DBMS_AQADM.EXCEPTION_QUEUE . Enqueue restrictions prevent Messaging Gateway propagation from using an Oracle Database Advanced Queuing queue of type EXCEPTION_QUEUE as a Messaging Gateway exception queue. INBOUND_PROPAGATION Subscribers The parameters for a subscriber used for inbound propagation are interpreted as follows: queue_name specifies the foreign queue that is the propagation source. This must have a syntax of registered_queue@message_link . destination specifies the local Oracle Database Advanced Queuing queue to which messages are propagated. This must have a syntax of schema.queue . rule specifies an optional subscriber rule that is valid for the foreign messaging system. This is NULL if no rule is needed. transformation specifies the transformation used to convert an ADT defined by Messaging Gateway to the Oracle Database Advanced Queuing payload type. Messaging Gateway propagation dequeues messages from the foreign messaging system and converts the message body to a known ADT defined by Messaging Gateway. The transformation is used to convert the Messaging Gateway ADT to an Oracle Database Advanced Queuing payload type when the message is enqueued to the Oracle Database Advanced Queuing queue. exception_queue specifies the name of a foreign queue to which messages are moved if an exception occurs. This must have a syntax of registered_queue@message_link . Whether or not a subscriber is needed depends on the requirements of the non-Oracle messaging system. If a durable subscriber is necessary, then it will be created by the Messaging Gateway agent. If the agent is not running at the time this procedure is called, then the creation of the subscriber on the non-Oracle messaging system will occur when the agent next starts. The exception queue has the following caveats: The exception queue must be a registered non-Oracle queue. The source and exception queues must use the same messaging system link.