---
id: 19c__DBMS_DATAPUMP
name: DBMS_DATAPUMP
object_type: plsql_subprogram
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_DATAPUMP
tags: [dbms_datapump]
source_file: DBMS_DATAPUMP.html
---

# DBMS_DATAPUMP

The DBMS_DATAPUMP package defines OBJECT types. The types described in this section are defined in the SYS schema for use by the GET_STATUS function. The way in which these types are defined and used may be different than what you are accustomed to. Be sure to read this section carefully.

## Syntax

```sql
CREATE TYPE sys.ku$_WorkerStatus1010 AS OBJECT
        (
                worker_number     NUMBER,       -- Worker process identifier
                process_name      VARCHAR2(30), -- Worker process name
                state             VARCHAR2(30), -- Worker process state
                schema            VARCHAR2(30), -- Schema name
                name              VARCHAR2(4000),-- Object name
                object_type       VARCHAR2(200),-- Object type
                partition         VARCHAR2(30), -- Partition name
                completed_objects NUMBER,       -- Completed number of objects
                total_objects     NUMBER,       -- Total number of objects
                completed_rows    NUMBER,       -- Number of rows completed
                completed_bytes   NUMBER,       -- Number of bytes completed
                percent_done      NUMBER        -- Percent done current object
        )
```

## Usage Notes

The collection of types defined for use with the GET_STATUS procedure are version-specific and include version information in the names of the types. Once introduced, these types will always be provided and supported in future versions of Oracle Database and will not change. However, in future releases of Oracle Database, new versions of these types might be created that provide new or different information. The new versions of these types will have different version information embedded in the type names. For example, in Oracle Database 12 c , Release 1 (12.1), there is a sys.ku$_Status1210 type, and in the next Oracle Database release, there could be a sys.ku$_Status1310 type defined. Both types could be used with the GET_STATUS procedure. Public synonyms have been defined for each of the types used with the GET_STATUS procedure. This makes it easier to use the types and means that you do not have to be concerned with changes to the actual type names or schemas where they reside. Oracle recommends that you use these synonyms whenever possible. For each of the types, there is a version-specific synonym and a generic synonym. For example, the version-specific synonym ku$_Status1210 is defined for the sys.ku$_Status1210 type. The generic synonym always describes the latest version of that type. For example, in Oracle Database 12 c , Release 1 (12.1), the generic synonym ku$_Status is defined as ku$_Status1210 . In a future release, there might be a ku$_Status1310 synonym for sys.ku$Status1310 . Because the ku$_Status generic synonym always points to the latest definition, it would then point to ku$_Status1310 rather than to ku$_Status1210 . The choice of whether to use version-specific synonyms or generic synonyms makes a significant difference in how you work. Using version-specific names protects your code from changes in future releases of Oracle Database because those types will continue to exist and be supported. However, access to new information will require code changes to use new synonym names for each of the types. Using the generic names implies that you always want the latest definition of the types and are prepared to deal with changes in different releases of Oracle Database. When the version of Oracle Database that you are using changes, any C code that accesses types through generic synonym names will need to be recompiled. Note: Languages other than PL/SQL must ensure that their type definitions are properly aligned with the version-specific definitions. See Also: GET_STATUS Procedure for additional information about how types are used Note: Languages other than PL/SQL must ensure that their type definitions are properly aligned with the version-specific definitions. See Also: GET_STATUS Procedure for additional information about how types are used Data Structures — Object Types The DBMS_DATAPUMP package defines the following kinds of OBJECT types: Worker Status Types Log Entry and Error Types Job Status Types Job Description Types Status Types Worker Status Types The worker status types describe what each worker process in a job is doing. The schema, object name, and object type of an object being processed will be provided. For workers processing user data, the partition name for a partitioned table (if any), the number of bytes processed in the partition, and the number of rows processed in the partition are also returned. Workers processing metadata provide status on the last object that was processed. No status for idle threads is returned. The percent_done refers to the amount completed for the current data item being processed. It is not updated for metadata objects. The worker status types are defined as follows: CREATE TYPE sys.ku$_WorkerStatus1010 AS OBJECT ( worker_number NUMBER, -- Worker process identifier process_name VARCHAR2(30), -- Worker process name state VARCHAR2(30), -- Worker process state schema VARCHAR2(30), -- Schema name name VARCHAR2(4000),-- Object name object_type VARCHAR2(200),-- Object type partition VARCHAR2(30), -- Partition name completed_objects NUMBER, -- Completed number of objects total_objects NUMBER, -- Total number of objects completed_rows NUMBER, -- Number of rows completed completed_bytes NUMBER, -- Number of bytes completed percent_done NUMBER -- Percent done current object ) CREATE OR REPLACE PUBLIC SYNONYM ku$_WorkerStatus1010 FOR sys.ku$_WorkerStatus1010; CREATE TYPE sys.ku$_WorkerStatus1020 AS OBJECT ( worker_number NUMBER, -- Worker process identifier process_name VARCHAR2(30), -- Worker process name state VARCHAR2(30), -- Worker process state schema VARCHAR2(30), -- Schema name name VARCHAR2(4000),-- Object name object_type VARCHAR2(200),-- Object type partition VARCHAR2(30), -- Partition name completed_objects NUMBER, -- Completed number of objects total_objects NUMBER, -- Total number of objects completed_rows NUMBER, -- Number of rows completed completed_bytes NUMBER, -- Number of bytes completed percent_done NUMBER, -- Percent done current object degree NUMBER -- Degree of parallelism ) CREATE OR REPLACE PUBLIC SYNONYM ku$_WorkerStatus1020 FOR sys.ku$_WorkerStatus1020; CREATE TYPE sys.ku$_WorkerStatus1120 AS OBJECT ( worker_number NUMBER, -- Worker process identifier process_name VARCHAR2(30), -- Worker process name state VARCHAR2(30), -- Worker process state schema VARCHAR2(30), -- Schema name name VARCHAR2(4000),-- Object name object_type VARCHAR2(200),-- Object type partition VARCHAR2(30), -- Partition name completed_objects NUMBER, -- Completed number of objects total_objects NUMBER, -- Total number of objects completed_rows NUMBER, -- Number of rows completed completed_bytes NUMBER, -- Number of bytes completed percent_done NUMBER, -- Percent done current object degree NUMBER, -- Degree of parallelism instance_id NUMBER -- Instance ID where running ) CREATE OR REPLACE PUBLIC SYNONYM ku$_WorkerStatus1120 FOR sys.ku$_WorkerStatus1120; CREATE TYPE sys.ku$_WorkerStatus1210 AS OBJECT ( worker_number NUMBER, -- Worker process identifier process_name VARCHAR2(30), -- Worker process name state VARCHAR2(30), -- Worker process state schema VARCHAR2(30), -- Schema name name VARCHAR2(4000),-- Object name object_type VARCHAR2(200),-- Object type partition VARCHAR2(30), -- Partition name completed_objects NUMBER, -- Completed number of objects total_objects NUMBER, -- Total number of objects completed_rows NUMBER, -- Number of rows completed completed_bytes NUMBER, -- Number of bytes completed percent_done NUMBER, -- Percent done current object degree NUMBER, -- Degree of parallelism instance_id NUMBER, -- Instance ID where running instance_name VARCHAR2(60), -- Instance Name where running host_name VARCHAR2(64) -- Host name where running ) CREATE OR REPLACE PUBLIC SYNONYM ku$_WorkerStatus1210 FOR sys.ku$_WorkerStatus1210; CREATE TYPE sys.ku$_WorkerStatus1220 AS OBJECT ( worker_number NUMBER, -- Worker process identifier process_name VARCHAR2(128),-- Worker process name state VARCHAR2(30), -- Worker process state schema VARCHAR2(128),-- Schema name name VARCHAR2(4000),-- Object name object_type VARCHAR2(200),-- Object type partition VARCHAR2(128),-- Partition name completed_objects NUMBER, -- Completed number of objects total_objects NUMBER, -- Total number of objects completed_rows NUMBER, -- Number of rows completed completed_bytes NUMBER, -- Number of bytes completed percent_done NUMBER, -- Percent done current object degree NUMBER, -- Degree of parallelism instance_id NUMBER, -- Instance ID where running instance_name VARCHAR2(60), -- Instance Name where running host_name VARCHAR2(101), -- Host name where running access_method VARCHAR2(16), -- Access Method of object obj_start_time DATE, -- Object start time obj_status DATE -- Object status at current time ) CREATE OR REPLACE PUBLIC SYNONYM ku$_WorkerStatus1220 FOR sys.ku$_WorkerStatus1220; CREATE OR REPLACE PUBLIC SYNONYM ku$_WorkerStatus FOR ku$_WorkerStatus1220; CREATE TYPE sys.ku$_WorkerStatusList1010 AS TABLE OF sys.ku$_WorkerStatus1010 CREATE TYPE sys.ku$_WorkerStatusList1020 AS TABLE OF sys.ku$_WorkerStatus1020 CREATE TYPE sys.ku$_WorkerStatusList1120 AS TABLE OF sys.ku$_WorkerStatus1120 CREATE TYPE sys.ku$_WorkerStatusList1210 AS TABLE OF sys.ku$_WorkerStatus1210 CREATE TYPE sys.ku$_WorkerStatusList1220 AS TABLE OF sys.ku$_WorkerStatus1220 CREATE OR REPLACE PUBLIC SYNONYM ku$_WorkerStatusList1010 FOR sys.ku$_WorkerStatusList1010; CREATE OR REPLACE PUBLIC SYNONYM ku$_WorkerStatusList1020 FOR sys.ku$_WorkerStatusList1020; CREATE OR REPLACE PUBLIC SYNONYM ku$_WorkerStatusList1120 FOR sys.ku$_WorkerStatusList1120; CREATE OR REPLACE PUBLIC SYNONYM ku$_WorkerStatusList1210 FOR sys.ku$_WorkerStatusList1210; CREATE OR REPLACE PUBLIC SYNONYM ku$_WorkerStatusList1220 FOR sys.ku$_WorkerStatusList1220; CREATE OR REPLACE PUBLIC SYNONYM ku$_WorkerStatusList FOR ku$_WorkerStatusList1220;