---
id: 19c__DBMS_SYNC_REFRESH.PREPARE_REFRESH
name: DBMS_SYNC_REFRESH.PREPARE_REFRESH
object_type: plsql_function
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_SYNC_REFRESH
tags: [dbms_sync_refresh]
source_file: DBMS_SYNC_REFRESH.html
---

# DBMS_SYNC_REFRESH.PREPARE_REFRESH

This procedure prepares for refresh the sync refresh groups identified by the group ID in the input.

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_SYNC_REFRESH.PREPARE_REFRESH (
   group_id   IN NUMBER)
RETURN DBMS_UTILITY.NUMBER_ARRAY;
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Mode | Description |
|-----------|------|------|-------------|
| group_id | NUMBER) | IN | The group ID of the sync refresh group to be prepared for sync refresh. |

**Returns:** `DBMS_UTILITY.NUMBER_ARRAY`

## Usage Notes

A sync refresh group consists of a set of related tables and all materialized views dependent on those base tables. Note this procedure will only prepare for refresh those dependent materialized views that have been registered for synchronous refresh. For more information on how to monitor the status of the two synchronous refresh operations, PREPARE_REFRESH and EXECUTE_REFRESH and how to troubleshoot errors that might occur using the information in the catalog views, refer to "Trouble-Shooting Synchronous Refresh Operations" in Oracle Database Data Warehousing Guide. Syntax DBMS_SYNC_REFRESH.PREPARE_REFRESH ( group_id IN NUMBER) RETURN DBMS_UTILITY.NUMBER_ARRAY; Parameters Table 173-9 PREPARE_REFRESH Procedure Parameters Parameter Description group_id The group ID of the sync refresh group to be prepared for sync refresh. Usage Notes This procedure plans the three phases of the sync refresh operation and executes the steps associated with the prepare phase itself. These steps include identifying the partitions of the fact tables and materialized views that have been changed, and computing their new values as a result of the changes. The new values of the partitions are stored in tables called outside tables that are exchanged into their corresponding partitions at the time of the EXECUTE_REFRESH . Before running this procedure, the user must run PREPARE_STAGING_LOG on all tables in the group. This is required even for staging logs that do not have changes in them. The user must also register any partition operations on the tables in the group using the REGISTER_PARTITION_OPERATION . One of the side effects of this procedure is that the tables being prepared are locked in this sense: the staging logs of the tables will be locked to prevent any DMLs from occurring and the registration of partition operations will be disabled. These locks will be in effect until you issue an EXECUTE_REFRESH statement. Alternatively, you can issue an ABORT_REFRESH operation to release these locks. Another side effect of this procedure is that it purges from the catalog records of earlier sync refresh operations; if they are older than the retention period, they are purged. The degree of parallelism of the prepare refresh job is inherited from the session parameters which you can control with an ALTER SESSION statement. The group ID of a table can be found using GET_GROUP_ID(table_name) . The group IDs of a list of tables can be found with GET_GROUP_ID_LIST(table_name_list) . The group IDs of all the lists of tables can be retrieved with GET_ALL_GROUP_IDS . By default, synchronous refresh does not maintain global indexes belonging to the tables and materialized views in the sync refresh group. If you wish to do so, you can set event 31904, level 64 before executing PREPARE_REFRESH . This will cause the partition exchange DDL statements generated by PREPARE_REFRESH to have the UPDATE INDEXES clause appended to them, and when they are executed by EXECUTE_REFRESH , the global indexes will be maintained.