---
id: 19c__DBMS_ROLLING.SET_PARAMETER
name: DBMS_ROLLING.SET_PARAMETER
object_type: plsql_procedure
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_ROLLING
tags: [dbms_rolling]
source_file: DBMS_ROLLING.html
---

# DBMS_ROLLING.SET_PARAMETER

This procedure modifies a rolling operation parameter.

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_ROLLING.SET_PARAMETER (
   scope    IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL,
   name     IN NUMBER,
   value    IN VARCHAR2);
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Mode | Description |
|-----------|------|------|-------------|
| scope | VARCHAR2 | IN | Parameter scope. It can either be NULL for global parameters, or the DB_UNIQUE_NAME of a specific database for local parameters. |
| name | NUMBER | IN | The DBMS_ROLLING constant for a given parameter. |
| value | VARCHAR2) | IN | New value for the parameter or NULL to revert to a default value. |

## Usage Notes

Syntax DBMS_ROLLING.SET_PARAMETER ( scope IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, name IN NUMBER, value IN VARCHAR2); Parameters Table 147-3 SET_PARAMETER Procedure Parameters Parameter Description scope Parameter scope. It can either be NULL for global parameters, or the DB_UNIQUE_NAME of a specific database for local parameters. name The DBMS_ROLLING constant for a given parameter. value New value for the parameter or NULL to revert to a default value. Exceptions ORA-45400 : operation not permitted on current database ORA-45408 : parameter name is unknown ORA-45409 : parameter value is invalid or out of bounds ORA-45410 : parameter may not be modified ORA-45411 : operation requires additional arguments ORA-45412 : parameter scope argument is unknown ORA-45413 : parameter has no default value ORA-45414 : could not connect to a remote database ORA-65040 : operation not allowed from within a pluggable database Usage Notes Changes to a parameter value may require a call to the DBMS_ROLLING.BUILD_PLAN procedure to modify the existing plan. Users should check the DBA_ROLLING_EVENTS view after setting a parameter to determine if a rebuild is necessary. Table 147-4 lists all the available parameters and their descriptions. The parameter names and values described in the table are all of type VARCHAR2 . The MINVAL and MAXVAL columns in the DBA_ROLLING_PARAMETERS view identify the valid range of values for a parameter. The view does not contain any parameters until the DBMS_ROLLING.INIT_PLAN procedure has been successfully invoked. Table 147-4 Valid Values for DBMS_ROLLING.SET_PARAMETER Procedure Parameter Name Global? Description Default ACTIVE_SESSIONS_TIMEOUT Yes The maximum amount of time in seconds to enforce ACTIVE_SESSIONS_WAIT before halting the rolling upgrade. This parameter is only valid if ACTIVE_SESSIONS_WAIT is set to 1. 3600 ACTIVE_SESSIONS_WAIT Yes Whether the switchover operation will wait for active sessions to finish. If set to 1, the SWITCHOVER procedure waits for active sessions to compete. If set to 0, the SWITCHOVER procedure kills active sessions to expedite the switchover. 0 BACKUP_CONTROLFILE Yes File name of the backup control file that is created during a rolling upgrade. rolling_change_backup.f DGBROKER Yes Use Data Guard broker for managing apply, recovery, and log archive destinations. 1 if broker is enabled, 0 otherwise. DICTIONARY_LOAD_TIMEOUT Yes The maximum amount of time in seconds to enforce DICTIONARY_LOAD_WAIT before halting the rolling upgrade. This parameter is only valid if DICTIONARY_LOAD_WAIT is set to 1. 3600 DICTIONARY_LOAD_WAIT Yes Whether the instantiation of the transient logical standby will include a wait for the complete loading of the data dictionary snapshot in redo. If set to 1, then the START_PLAN procedure will not return until the dictionary has been completely loaded. If set to 0, then the START_PLAN procedure will only verify that the loading of the dictionary has started. 0 DICTIONARY_PLS_WAIT_INIT Yes The time in seconds to wait in between attempts to quiesce PL/SQL activity in order to write the data dictionary to redo. 300 DICTIONARY_PLS_WAIT_TIMEOUT Yes The maximum amount of time in seconds to attempt to quiesce PL/SQL activity in order to write the data dictionary to redo. 3600 EVENT_RECORDS Yes The maximum number of records to permit in DBA_ROLLING_EVENTS 10000 FAILOVER Yes Automatically attempt to adjust the upgrade plan as a result of a failover event. This parameter resets its value to 0 upon completion of a subsequent call to BUILD_PLAN . 0 GRP_PREFIX Execution of procedures in DBMS_ROLLING results in a number of Guaranteed Restore Points (GRP) taken in various databases participating in the Data Guard configuration. All such GRPs have the same prefix in their names. You can use this parameter to override the default prefix. DBMSRU IGNORE_BUILD_WARNINGS Yes Ignore warnings which would otherwise raise exceptions during execution of the BUILD_PLAN procedure. 1 IGNORE_LAST_ERROR Yes Ignore last encountered error upon startup of next rolling operation. This parameter resets its value to 0 upon invocation of a procedure call which resumes the rolling upgrade. 0 LAD_ENABLED_TIMEOUT Yes The maximum time in seconds to wait for a recently enabled log archive destination to reach a VALID state. 600 LOG_LEVEL Yes Logging level for the DBS_ROLLING PL/SQL package. A value of INFO results in the logging of errors and relevant non-fatal warnings. A value of FULL results in the logging of all events. INFO MEMBER No The upgrade group in which the specified database is a member. A value of LEADING indicates that the standby is a member of the leading upgrade group. As such, it is a standby of the Leading Group Master (LGM). The LGM is the database which is converted into the transient logical standby, and which becomes the new primary after the switchover. A value of TRAILING indicates that the standby is a member of the trailing upgrade group. As such, it is a standby of the Trailing Group Master (TGM). The TGM is the original primary database. LEADING READY_LGM_LAG_TIME Yes The apply lag time in seconds associated with the READY_LGM_LAG_WAIT parameter. 600 READY_LGM_LAG_TIMEOUT Yes The maximum amount of time in seconds to enforce READY_LGM_LAG_WAIT before halting the rolling upgrade. This parameter is only valid if READY_LGM_LAG_WAIT is set to 1. 60 READY_LGM_LAG_WAIT Yes Whether the START_PLAN procedure will wait for the apply lag on the leading group master to fall below READY_LGM_LAG_TIME seconds before returning control back to the user. If set to 1, the wait is performed. If set to 0, the wait is not performed. 0 SWITCH_LGM_LAG_TIME Yes The apply lag time in seconds associated with the SWITCH_LGM_LAG_WAIT parameter. 600 SWITCH_LGM_LAG_TIMEOUT Yes The maximum amount of time in seconds to enforce SWITCH_LGM_LAG_WAIT before halting the rolling upgrade. This parameter is only valid if SWITCH_LGM_LAG_WAIT is set to 1. 60 SWITCH_LGM_LAG_WAIT Yes Whether the SWITCHOVER procedure will wait for the apply lag on the leading group master to fall below SWITCH_LGM_LAG_TIME seconds before initiating the switchover. If set to 1, the wait is performed. If set to 0, the wait is not performed. 1 SWITCH_LGS_LAG_TIME Yes The apply lag time in seconds associated with the SWITCH_LGS_LAG_WAIT parameter. 60 SWITCH_LGS_LAG_TIMEOUT Yes The maximum amount of time in seconds to enforce SWITCH_LGS_LAG_WAIT before halting the rolling upgrade. This parameter is only valid if SWITCH_LGS_LAG_WAIT is set to 1. 60 SWITCH_LGS_LAG_WAIT Yes Whether the SWITCHOVER procedure will wait for the apply lag on the leading group standbys to fall below SWITCH_LGS_LAG_TIME seconds before initiating the switchover. If set to 1, the wait is performed. If set to 0, the wait is not performed. 0 UPDATED_LGS_TIMEOUT Yes The maximum amount of time in seconds to enforce UPDATED_LGS_WAIT before halting the rolling upgrade. This parameter is only valid if UPDATED_LGS_WAIT is set to 1. 10800 UPDATED_LGS_WAIT Yes Whether the SWITCHOVER procedure will wait for the leading group standbys to complete recovery of all upgrade redo before initiating the switchover. If set to 1, the wait is performed. If set to 0, the wait is not performed 1 UPDATED_TGS_TIMEOUT Yes The maximum amount of time in seconds to enforce UPDATED_TGS_WAIT before halting the rolling upgrade. This parameter is only valid if UPDATED_TGS_WAIT is set to 1. 10800 UPDATED_TGS_WAIT Yes Whether the FINISH_PLAN procedure will wait for the trailing group standbys to complete recovery of all upgrade redo before returning control to the user. If set to 1, the wait is performed. If set to 0, the wait is not performed. 1