---
id: 19c__INTRODUCTION.CREATING
name: INTRODUCTION.CREATING
object_type: plsql_function
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: INTRODUCTION
tags: [introduction]
source_file: introduction-to-oracle-supplied-plsql-packages-and-types.html
---

# INTRODUCTION.CREATING

To create packages and store them permanently in an Oracle database, use the CREATE PACKAGE and CREATE PACKAGE BODY statements. You can execute these statements interactively from SQL*Plus or Enterprise Manager.

## Syntax

```sql
CREATE PACKAGE employee_management AS
   FUNCTION hire_emp (name VARCHAR2, job VARCHAR2,
      mgr NUMBER, hiredate DATE, sal NUMBER, comm NUMBER,
      deptno NUMBER) RETURN NUMBER;
   PROCEDURE fire_emp (emp_id NUMBER);
   PROCEDURE sal_raise (emp_id NUMBER, sal_incr NUMBER);
END employee_management;
```

**Returns:** `NUMBER`

## Usage Notes

To create a new package, do the following: Create the package specification with the CREATE PACKAGE statement. You can declare program objects in the package specification. Such objects are called public objects. Public objects can be referenced outside the package, as well as by other objects in the package. Note: It is often more convenient to add the OR REPLACE clause in the CREATE PACKAGE statement. But note that CREATE PACKAGE warns you if you are about to overwrite an existing package with the same name while CREATE OR REPLACE just overwrites it with no warning. Create the package body with the CREATE PACKAGE BODY statement. You can declare and define program objects in the package body. You must define public objects declared in the package specification. You can declare and define additional package objects, called private objects. Private objects are declared in the package body rather than in the package specification, so they can be referenced only by other objects in the package. They cannot be referenced outside the package. See Also: Oracle Database PL/SQL Language Reference Oracle Database Development Guide for more information on creating new packages Oracle Database Concepts for more information on storing and executing packages Note: It is often more convenient to add the OR REPLACE clause in the CREATE PACKAGE statement. But note that CREATE PACKAGE warns you if you are about to overwrite an existing package with the same name while CREATE OR REPLACE just overwrites it with no warning. See Also: Oracle Database PL/SQL Language Reference Oracle Database Development Guide for more information on creating new packages Oracle Database Concepts for more information on storing and executing packages Oracle stores the specification and body of a package separately in the database. Other schema objects that call or reference public program objects depend only on the package specification, not on the package body. Using this distinction, you can change the definition of a program object in the package body without causing Oracle to invalidate other schema objects that call or reference the program object. Oracle invalidates dependent schema objects only if you change the declaration of the program object in the package specification. CREATE PACKAGE employee_management AS FUNCTION hire_emp (name VARCHAR2, job VARCHAR2, mgr NUMBER, hiredate DATE, sal NUMBER, comm NUMBER, deptno NUMBER) RETURN NUMBER; PROCEDURE fire_emp (emp_id NUMBER); PROCEDURE sal_raise (emp_id NUMBER, sal_incr NUMBER); END employee_management; The body for this package defines the function and the procedures: CREATE PACKAGE BODY employee_management AS FUNCTION hire_emp (name VARCHAR2, job VARCHAR2, mgr NUMBER, hiredate DATE, sal NUMBER, comm NUMBER, deptno NUMBER) RETURN NUMBER IS The function accepts all arguments for the fields in the employee table except for the employee number. A value for this field is supplied by a sequence. The function returns the sequence number generated by the call to this function. new_empno NUMBER(10); BEGIN SELECT emp_sequence.NEXTVAL INTO new_empno FROM dual; INSERT INTO emp VALUES (new_empno, name, job, mgr, hiredate, sal, comm, deptno); RETURN (new_empno); END hire_emp; PROCEDURE fire_emp(emp_id IN NUMBER) AS The procedure deletes the employee with an employee number that corresponds to the argument emp_id . If no employee is found, then an exception is raised. BEGIN DELETE FROM emp WHERE empno = emp_id; IF SQL%NOTFOUND THEN raise_application_error(-20011, 'Invalid Employee Number: ' || TO_CHAR(emp_id)); END IF; END fire_emp; PROCEDURE sal_raise (emp_id IN NUMBER, sal_incr IN NUMBER) AS The procedure accepts two arguments. Emp_id is a number that corresponds to an employee number. Sal_incr is the amount by which to increase the employee's salary. BEGIN -- If employee exists, then update salary with increase. UPDATE emp SET sal = sal + sal_incr WHERE empno = emp_id; IF SQL%NOTFOUND THEN raise_application_error(-20011, 'Invalid Employee Number: ' || TO_CHAR(emp_id)); END IF; END sal_raise; END employee_management; Note: If you want to try this example, then first create the sequence number emp_sequence . You can do this using the following SQL*Plus statement: SQL> CREATE SEQUENCE emp_sequence > START WITH 8000 INCREMENT BY 10;