---
id: 19c__DBMS_APPLY_ADM.SET_PARAMETER
name: DBMS_APPLY_ADM.SET_PARAMETER
object_type: plsql_procedure
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_APPLY_ADM
tags: [dbms_apply_adm]
source_file: DBMS_APPLY_ADM.html
---

# DBMS_APPLY_ADM.SET_PARAMETER

This procedure sets an apply parameter to the specified value.

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_APPLY_ADM.SET_PARAMETER (
   apply_name  IN  VARCHAR2, 
   parameter   IN  VARCHAR2, 
   value       IN  VARCHAR2  DEFAULT NULL);
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Mode | Description |
|-----------|------|------|-------------|
| apply_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | The apply component name. Do not specify an owner. |
| parameter | VARCHAR2 | IN | The name of the parameter you are setting. |
| value | VARCHAR2 | IN | The value to which the parameter is set. If NULL , then the parameter is set to its default value. |

## Usage Notes

Syntax DBMS_APPLY_ADM.SET_PARAMETER ( apply_name IN VARCHAR2, parameter IN VARCHAR2, value IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL); Parameters Table 21-22 SET_PARAMETER Procedure Parameters Parameter Description apply_name The apply component name. Do not specify an owner. parameter The name of the parameter you are setting. value The value to which the parameter is set. If NULL , then the parameter is set to its default value. Apply Component Parameters The following table lists the parameters for an apply component. Note: OPTIMIZE_PROGRESS_TABLE is desupported in the Oracle Database 19c Release and is no longer available. Table 21-23 Apply Component Parameters Parameter Name Possible Values Default Description allow_duplicate_rows Y or N N If Y and more than one row is changed by a single row logical change record (row LCR) with an UPDATE or DELETE command type, then the apply component only updates or deletes one of the rows. If N , then the apply component raises an error when it encounters a single row LCR with an UPDATE or DELETE command type that changes more than one row in a table. Note: Regardless of the setting for this parameter, apply components do not allow changes to duplicate rows for tables with LOB, LONG , or LONG RAW columns. See Also: " Usage Notes " and " Duplicate Rows and Substitute Primary Key Columns " apply_sequence_nextval Y or N N for apply processes Y for XStream outbound servers and XStream inbound servers Controls whether the apply component checks and adjusts sequence values. If Y , then the apply component checks and adjusts sequence values. For ascending sequences, setting this parameter to Y ensures that the destination sequence values are equal to or greater than the source sequence values. For descending sequences, setting this parameter to Y ensures that the destination sequence values are equal to or less than the source sequence values. If N , then the apply component does not check or adjust sequence values. Note: This parameter is intended for XStream. Do not set this parameter to Y for an apply process in an Oracle Replication environment unless XStream optimizations are enabled by the DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM.ENABLE_GG_XSTREAM_FOR_STREAMS procedure. See " ENABLE_GG_XSTREAM_FOR_STREAMS Procedure " for information about enabling XStream optimizations. See Also: SET_PARAMETER Procedure for information about the capture_sequence_nextval capture process parameter batchsql_mode DEPENDENT , DEPENDENT_EAGER , or SEQUENTIAL DEPENDENT Determines the batching method used to generate batch transactions for reordering. This parameter can be set to one of the following: DEPENDENT - Batch transactions in a dependency-aware manner to minimize cross-batch dependencies and improve parallel processing performance in Oracle GoldenGate BATCHSQL mode. An executing batch has no unresolved dependencies. DEPENDENT_EAGER - Batch transactions in a dependency-aware manner to minimize cross-batch dependencies and improve parallel processing performance in Oracle GoldenGate BATCHSQL mode. A batch can be executed when there are unresolved dependencies. The apply server waits for dependencies to be resolved before executing an LCR. SEQUENTIAL - Batch transactions in a sequential manner. COMMIT_SERIALIZATION = FULL runs in this mode regardless of the Oracle GoldenGate BATCHSQL mode. Note: This parameter is intended for Oracle GoldenGate. Do not use this parameter in an Oracle Replication environment or in an XStream environment. cdgranularity ROW or COLGROUP COLGROUP for XStream In ROW for Oracle GoldenGate Specifies the conflict detection granularity. This parameter can be set to one of the following: ROW - Conflict resolution is applied for all column groups if there is a conflict for any column group. COLGROUP - Conflict resolution is applied for column groups that have a conflict. Conflict resolution is not applied for column groups that do not have a conflict. Note: This parameter is intended for XStream and Oracle GoldenGate. Do not set this parameter for an apply process in an Oracle Replication environment unless XStream optimizations are enabled by the DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM.ENABLE_GG_XSTREAM_FOR_STREAMS procedure. See " ENABLE_GG_XSTREAM_FOR_STREAMS Procedure " for information about enabling XStream optimizations. commit_serialization DEPENDENT_TRANSACTIONS or FULL DEPENDENT_TRANSACTIONS The order in which applied transactions are committed. Apply servers can apply nondependent transactions at the destination database in an order that is different from the commit order at the source database. Dependent transactions are always applied at the destination database in the same order as they were committed at the source database. You control whether the apply servers can apply nondependent transactions in a different order at the destination database using the commit_serialization apply parameter. This parameter has the following settings: DEPENDENT_TRANSACTIONS - The apply component can commit nondependent transactions in any order. Performance is best if you specify DEPENDENT_TRANSACTIONS . FULL - The apply component commits applied transactions in the order in which they were committed at the source database. Regardless of the specification, applied transactions can execute in parallel subject to data dependencies and constraint dependencies. If you specify DEPENDENT_TRANSACTIONS , then a destination database might commit changes in a different order than the source database. For example, suppose two nondependent transactions are committed at the source database in the following order: Transaction A Transaction B At the destination database, these transactions might be committed in the opposite order: Transaction B Transaction A If you specify DEPENDENT_TRANSACTIONS and there are application constraints that are not enforced by the database, then use virtual dependency definitions or add RELY constraints to account for the application constraints. See Oracle Database Data Warehousing Guide for information about RELY constraints. Note: The NONE value is deprecated for this parameter. It is replaced by the DEPENDENT_TRANSACTIONS value. See Also: " Usage Notes " compare_key_only Y or N N for apply processes Y for XStream inbound servers If Y , then disables automatic conflict detection and only uses primary and unique key columns to identify the table row for a row LCR. If N , then enables automatic conflict detection and uses all of the old values in a row LCR to identify the table row for a row LCR. Note: The COMPARE_OLD_VALUES procedure in this package can disable comparison of old values for specified columns during apply. See COMPARE_OLD_VALUES Procedure . See Also: " Usage Notes " compute_lcr_dep_on_arrival Y or N N If Y , the dependencies are computed as the LCRs for the transaction are received. If N , the dependencies are computed only after all the LCRs for a transaction are received. If the target table has all of the same constraints as the source table, you can improve the performance by setting this parameter to Y . If the number of LCRs in transaction exceeds the value of the number of the eager_size parameter, then the dependencies for that transaction are calculated on arrival regardless of the setting of compute_lcr_dep_on_arrival . Note: This parameter is intended for XStream. Do not set this parameter to Y for an apply process in an Oracle Replication environment unless XStream optimizations are enabled by the DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM.ENABLE_GG_XSTREAM_FOR_STREAMS procedure. See " ENABLE_GG_XSTREAM_FOR_STREAMS Procedure " for information about enabling XStream optimizations. disable_on_error Y or N Y If Y , then the apply component is disabled on the first unresolved error, even if the error is not irrecoverable. If N , then the apply component continues regardless of unresolved errors. disable_on_limit Y or N N If Y , then the apply component is disabled if the apply component terminates because it reached a value specified by the time_limit parameter or transaction_limit parameter. If N , then the apply component is restarted immediately after stopping because it reached a limit. When an apply component is restarted, it gets a new session identifier, and the processes associated with the apply component also get new session identifiers. However, the coordinator process number ( AP nn ) remains the same. eager_size A positive integer 9500 The apply component usually waits until it receives a commit record before starting to apply changes of a transaction. If XStream is enabled and more than eager_size LCRs arrive for a given transaction, then apply starts processing the changes. If XStream is not enabled and more than eager_size LCRs arrive for a given transaction, then apply waits until the complete transaction is received before processing the changes. Since it is possible that all existing apply servers are handling complete transactions from the source, additional apply servers are automatically created to handle outstanding eager transactions. The apply parameter max_parallelism limits the maximum number of apply servers that can be used for an apply process. This apply parameter is relevant only if its value is less than the value of the txn_lcr_spill_threshold apply parameter. When the value of txn_lcr_spill_threshold is lower than the value of eager_size , transactions spill to disk before eager apply begins. Note: This parameter is intended for XStream. Do not set this parameter in an Oracle Replication environment unless XStream optimizations are enabled by the DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM.ENABLE_GG_XSTREAM_FOR_STREAMS procedure See " ENABLE_GG_XSTREAM_FOR_STREAMS Procedure " for information about enabling XStream optimizations. enable_xstream_table_stats Y or N Y When this parameter is set to Y , statistics about the operations of applied transactions are collected and made available in the V$XSTREAM_TABLE_STATS view. When this parameter is set to N , no statistics are collected. Note: This parameter is intended for XStream. Do not set this parameter to Y for an apply process in an Oracle Replication environment. excludetag Comma-delimited list of Oracle Replication tags NULL Controls whether the capture process for an outbound server captures DML changes that are tagged with one of the specified Oracle Replication tags. Whether the capture process captures these changes depends on the settings for the getapplops and getreplicates parameters. If NULL , then the capture process ignores this parameter. Note: This parameter is intended for an XStream Out environment in which multiple outbound servers use the same capture process. XStream inbound servers ignore this parameter. Do not set this parameter in an Oracle Replication environment. See Also: " Usage Notes " for the DBMS_CAPTURE_ADM.SET_PARAMETER procedure for more information about this parameter excludetrans Comma-delimited list of transaction names NULL Controls whether the capture process for an outbound server captures DML changes in the specified transaction names. Whether the capture process captures these changes depends on the settings for the getapplops and getreplicates parameters. If NULL , then the capture process ignores this parameter. Note: This parameter is intended for an XStream Out environment in which multiple outbound servers use the same capture process. XStream inbound servers ignore this parameter. Do not set this parameter in an Oracle Replication environment. See Also: " Usage Notes " for the DBMS_CAPTURE_ADM.SET_PARAMETER procedure for more information about this parameter excludeuser Comma-delimited list of user names NULL Controls whether the capture process for an outbound server captures DML changes made by the specified users. Whether the capture process captures these changes depends on the settings for the getapplops and getreplicates parameters. Specify an exact pattern match for each user name. The pattern match is case sensitive. For example, specify HR for the hr user. If NULL , then the capture process ignores this parameter. Note: This parameter is intended for an XStream Out environment in which multiple outbound servers use the same capture process. XStream inbound servers ignore this parameter. Do not set this parameter in an Oracle Replication environment. See Also: " Usage Notes " for the DBMS_CAPTURE_ADM.SET_PARAMETER procedure for more information about this parameter excludeuserid Comma-delimited list of user ID values NULL Controls whether the capture process for an outbound server captures data manipulation language (DML) changes made by the specified users. Whether the capture process captures these changes depends on the settings for the getapplops and getreplicates parameters. To view the user ID for a user, query the USER_ID column in the ALL_USERS data dictionary view. If NULL , then the capture process ignores this parameter. Note: This parameter is intended for an XStream Out environment in which multiple outbound servers use the same capture process. XStream inbound servers ignore this parameter. Do not set this parameter in an Oracle Replication environment. See Also: " Usage Notes " for the DBMS_CAPTURE_ADM.SET_PARAMETER procedure for more information about this parameter getapplops Y or N Y If Y , then the capture process captures DML changes if the original user is not specified in the excludeuserid or excludeuser parameters and the transaction name is not specified in the excludetrans parameter. If N , then the capture process ignores DML changes if the original user is not specified in the excludeuserid or excludeuser parameters and the transaction name is not specified in the excludetrans parameter. In either case, the capture process captures a DML change only if it satisfies the capture process's rule sets. When N is set for both getapplops and getreplicates , no data is captured. Note: This parameter is intended for an XStream Out environment in which multiple outbound servers use the same capture process. XStream inbound servers ignore this parameter. Do not set this parameter in an Oracle Replication environment. See Also: " Usage Notes " for the DBMS_CAPTURE_ADM.SET_PARAMETER procedure for more information about this parameter getreplicates Y or N N If Y , then the capture process captures DML changes if the original user is specified in the excludeuserid or excludeuser parameters and the transaction name is specified in the excludetrans parameter. If N , then the capture process ignores DML changes if the original user is specified in the excludeuserid or excludeuser parameters and the transaction name is specified in the excludetrans parameter. In either case, the capture process captures a DML change only if it satisfies the capture process's rule sets. When N is set for both getapplops and getreplicates , no data is captured. Note: This parameter is intended for an XStream Out environment in which multiple outbound servers use the same capture process. XStream inbound servers ignore this parameter. Do not set this parameter in an Oracle Replication environment. See Also: " Usage Notes " for the DBMS_CAPTURE_ADM.SET_PARAMETER procedure for more information about this parameter grouptransops A positive integer from 1 to 10000 250 for apply processes and XStream inbound servers 10000 for XStream outbound servers The minimum number of LCRs that can be grouped into a single transaction. The commit LCR for a transaction is not included in the LCR count for the transaction. This parameter enables an apply component to group LCRs from multiple transactions into a single transaction. The apply component groups only LCRs that are part of committed transactions. If a transaction has more LCRs than the setting for this parameter, then the transaction is applied as a single transaction. The apply component does not split a transaction into separate transactions. This parameter only takes effect if the parallelism parameter setting is 1 . The grouptransops parameter is ignored if the parallelism parameter setting is greater than 1 . Note: This parameter is intended for XStream outbound servers and inbound servers. An Oracle Apply process ignores this parameter unless XStream optimizations are enabled by the DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM.ENABLE_GG_XSTREAM_FOR_STREAMS procedure. See " ENABLE_GG_XSTREAM_FOR_STREAMS Procedure " for information about enabling XStream optimizations. See Also: " Usage Notes " handlecollisions Y or N N This parameter controls whether the apply component tries to resolve duplicate-record and missing-record errors when applying changes during data loading. This parameter should be set to N for normal replication activity. It should be set to Y only when data is being loaded (instantiated) and replication is enabled. If Y , then does the equivalent of OVERWRITE for INSERT , UPDATE and DELETE operations that get ROW_EXISTS errors, and ignores UPDATE and DELETE operations that get ROW_MISSING errors. Specifically, the apply component performs the following actions when this parameter is set to Y : If the operation is an insert and the primary key or unique key exists, then the insert is converted to an update. If the operation is an update that does not modify the primary key or unique key columns, and the row does not exist, then the change is ignored. If the operation is an update that modifies the primary key or unique key columns, and the row does not exist, then the change is ignored. If the operation is an update that modifies the primary key or unique key columns, and the a row with the new key values already exists, then delete the row with the old key values and replace the row with the new key values. If the operation is a delete and the row does not exist, then the change is ignored. If N then it disables the above settings. Note: This parameter is intended for an XStream In environment with one or more inbound servers. Do not set this parameter in an Oracle Replication environment. ignore_transaction A valid source transaction ID or NULL NULL Instructs the apply component to ignore the specified transaction from the source database, effective immediately. Use caution when setting this parameter because ignoring a transaction might lead to data divergence between the source database and destination database. To ignore multiple transactions, specify each transaction in a separate call to the SET_PARAMETER procedure. The DBA_APPLY_PARAMETERS view displays a comma-delimited list of all transactions to be ignored. To clear the list of ignored transactions, run the SET_PARAMETER procedure and specify NULL for the ignore_transaction parameter. If NULL , then the apply component ignores this parameter. Note: An apply component ignores this parameter for transactions that were not captured by a capture process. See Also: " Usage Notes " maximum_scn A valid SCN or INFINITE INFINITE The apply component is disabled before applying a transaction with a commit SCN greater than or equal to the value specified. If INFINITE , then the apply component runs regardless of the SCN value. Note: An apply component ignores this parameter for transactions that were not captured by a capture process. See Also: " Usage Notes " max_parallelism A positive integer 50 Limits the maximum number of apply servers that can be used for an apply component. When the apply parallelism parameter is set greater than one, the apply component adds apply servers when necessary to process transactions until it reaches the limit set by this parameter ( max_parallelism ). Transactions include both unassigned (eager) and assigned transactions. Apply servers that idle for more than 5 minutes are shut down until the configured parallelism is attained. Runtime statistics for servers that have been shut down are aggregated into apply server 0 so that accurate apply statistics for the entire apply process can be maintained. Note: This parameter is intended for XStream. Do not set this parameter to Y for an apply process in an Oracle Replication environment unless XStream optimizations are enabled by the DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM.ENABLE_GG_XSTREAM_FOR_STREAMS procedure. See " ENABLE_GG_XSTREAM_FOR_STREAMS Procedure " for information about enabling XStream optimizations. max_sga_size A positive integer INFINITE Controls the amount of system global area (SGA) memory allocated specifically to the apply component, in megabytes. The memory is allocated for the duration of the apply component's session and is released when the apply component becomes disabled. Note: The sum of system global area (SGA) memory allocated for all components on a database must be less than the value set for the STREAMS_POOL_SIZE initialization parameter. If NULL , then the apply component uses the original default value. A NULL value has the same effect as resetting the parameter to its default value. Note: This parameter is intended for XStream. Do not use or attempt to set this parameter in an Oracle Replication environment unless XStream optimizations are enabled by the DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM.ENABLE_GG_XSTREAM_FOR_STREAMS procedure. See " ENABLE_GG_XSTREAM_FOR_STREAMS Procedure " for information about enabling XStream optimizations. See Also: " Usage Notes " message_tracking_frequency 0 or a positive integer 2000000 The frequency at which messages applied by the inbound server are tracked automatically. For example, if this parameter is set to the default value of 2000000 , then every two-millionth message is tracked automatically. The tracking label used for automatic message tracking is inbound_server_name :AUTOTRACK , where inbound_server_name is the name of the inbound server. Only the first 20 bytes of the inbound server name are used; the rest is truncated if it exceeds 20 bytes. If 0 (zero), then no messages are tracked automatically. optimize_self_updates Y or N Y This parameter affects conflict resolution when an update in the source database sets a column to its existing value. When this parameter is set to Y , a conflict between the value in the LCR and the corresponding column in the target database is considered resolved. When this parameter is set to N , the conflict is processed. parallelism A positive integer 4 The number of apply servers that can concurrently apply transactions. The reader server and the apply server process names are AS nn , where nn can include letters and numbers. The total number of AS nn processes is the value of the parallelism parameter plus one. For example, if parallelism is set to 4 , then an apply component uses a total of five AS nn processes. In this case, there is one reader server and four apply servers. Setting the parallelism parameter to a number higher than the number of available operating system user processes can disable the apply component. Make sure the PROCESSES initialization parameter is set appropriately when you set the parallelism parameter. Note: When the value of this parameter is changed from 1 to a higher value for a running apply component, the apply component is stopped and restarted automatically. This can take some time depending on the size of the transactions currently being applied. When the value of this parameter is greater than 1 , and the parameter value is decreased or increased, the apply component does not restart. See Also: " Usage Notes " parallelism_interval 0 or a positive integer 0 The parallelism interval is the interval in seconds at which the current workload activity is computed. The apply component calculates the mean throughput every 5 X parallelism_interval seconds. After each calculation, the apply component can increase or decrease the number of apply servers to try to improve throughput. If throughput is improved, then the apply component keeps the new number of apply servers. The parallelism interval is used only if the parallelism parameter is set to a value greater than one and the max_parallelism parameter value is greater than the parallelism parameter value. Note: This parameter is intended for an XStream In environment with one or more inbound servers. XStream outbound servers ignore this parameter. Do not set this parameter in an Oracle Replication environment unless XStream optimizations are enabled by the DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM.ENABLE_GG_XSTREAM_FOR_STREAMS procedure. See " ENABLE_GG_XSTREAM_FOR_STREAMS Procedure " for information about enabling XStream optimizations. See Also: " Usage Notes " preserve_encryption Y or N Y Whether to preserve encryption for columns encrypted using Transparent Data Encryption. If Y , then columns in tables at the destination database must be encrypted when corresponding columns in row LCRs are encrypted. If columns are encrypted in row LCRs but the corresponding columns are not encrypted in the tables at the destination database, then an error is raised when the apply component tries to apply the row LCRs. If N , then columns in tables at the destination database do not need to be encrypted when corresponding columns in row LCRs are encrypted. If columns are encrypted in row LCRs but the corresponding columns are not encrypted in the tables at the destination database, then the apply component applies the changes in the row LCRs. Note: When the value of this parameter is changed for a running apply component, the apply component is stopped and restarted automatically. This can take some time depending on the size of the transactions currently being applied. See Also: " Usage Notes " rtrim_on_implicit_conversion Y or N Y Whether to remove blank padding from the right end of a column when automatic data type conversion is performed during apply. If Y , then blank padding is removed when a CHAR or NCHAR source column in a row LCR is converted to a VARCHAR2 , NVARCHAR2 , or CLOB column in a table. If N , then blank padding is preserved in the column. See Also: " Usage Notes " startup_seconds 0 , a positive integer, or INFINITE 0 The maximum number of seconds to wait for another instantiation of the same apply component to finish. If the other instantiation of the same apply component does not finish within this time, then the apply component does not start. If INFINITE , then an apply component does not start until another instantiation of the same apply component finishes. See Also: " Usage Notes " suppresstriggers Y or N Y This parameter controls whether triggers fire when a change is made by the apply component. If Y , triggers do not fire for changes made by the apply component. If N , triggers fire for changes made by the apply component. If a trigger's firing property is set to always fire, then the trigger always fires for changes made by the apply component, regardless of the value of the suppresstriggers parameter. A trigger's firing property is set to always fire by running the DBMS_DDL.SET_TRIGGER_FIRING_PROPERTY procedure with the fire_once parameter set to FALSE . Note: This parameter is intended for an XStream In environment with one or more inbound servers. Do not set this parameter in an Oracle Replication environment. See Also: " Usage Notes " time_limit A positive integer or INFINITE INFINITE The apply component stops as soon as possible after the specified number of seconds since it started. If INFINITE , then the apply component continues to run until it is stopped explicitly. See Also: " Usage Notes " trace_level 0 or a positive integer 0 Set this parameter only under the guidance of Oracle Support Services. See Also: " Usage Notes " transaction_limit A positive integer or INFINITE INFINITE The apply component stops after applying the specified number of transactions. If INFINITE , then the apply component continues to run regardless of the number of transactions applied. See Also: " Usage Notes " txn_age_spill_threshold A positive integer or INFINITE 900 The apply component begins to spill messages from memory to hard disk for a particular transaction when the amount of time that any message in the transaction has been in memory exceeds the specified number. The parameter specifies the age in seconds. When the reader server spills messages from memory, the messages are stored in a database table on the hard disk. These messages are not spilled from memory to a queue table. Message spilling occurs at the transaction level. For example, if this parameter is set to 900 , and the reader server of an apply component detects that one message in a transaction has been in memory longer than 900 seconds, then all of the messages in the transaction spill from memory to hard disk. If INFINITE , then the apply component does not spill messages to the hard disk based on the age of the messages. Query the DBA_APPLY_SPILL_TXN data dictionary view for information about transactions spilled by an apply component. See Also: " Usage Notes " txn_lcr_spill_threshold A positive integer or INFINITE 10000 The apply component begins to spill messages from memory to hard disk for a particular transaction when the number of messages in memory for the transaction exceeds the specified number. The number of messages in first chunk of messages spilled from memory equals the number specified for this parameter, and the number of messages spilled in future chunks is either 100 or the number specified for this parameter, whichever is less. If the reader server of an apply component has the specified number of messages in memory for a particular transaction, then when it detects the next message for this transaction, it spills the messages that are in memory to the hard disk. For example, if this parameter is set to 10000 , and a transaction has 10,200 messages, then the reader server handles the transaction in the following way: Reads the first 10,000 messages in the transaction into memory Spills messages 1 - 10,000 to hard disk when it detects message 10,000 Reads the next 100 messages in the transaction into memory Spills messages 10,001 - 10,100 to hard disk when it detects message 10,100 Reads the next 100 messages in the transaction into memory The apply component applies the first 10,100 messages from the hard disk and the last 100 messages from memory. When the reader server spills messages from memory, the messages are stored in a database table on the hard disk. These messages are not spilled from memory to a queue table. Message spilling occurs at the transaction level. For example, if this parameter is set to 10000 , and the reader server of an apply component is assembling two transactions, one with 7,500 messages and another with 8,000 messages, then it does not spill any messages. If INFINITE , then the apply component does not spill messages to the hard disk based on the number of messages in a transaction. Query the DBA_APPLY_SPILL_TXN data dictionary view for information about transactions spilled by an apply component. See Also: " Usage Notes " write_alert_log Y or N Y If Y , then the apply component writes a message to the alert log on exit. If N , then the apply component does not write a message to the alert log on exit. The message specifies the reason why the apply component stopped. Note: OPTIMIZE_PROGRESS_TABLE is desupported in the Oracle Database 19c Release and is no longer available. Usage Notes The following usage notes apply to this procedure: Delays Are Possible Before New Parameter Settings Take Effect Parameters Interpreted as Positive Integers Parameters with a System Change Number (SCN) Setting The SET_PARAMETER Procedure and Replication The SET_PARAMETER Procedure and XStream Outbound Servers The SET_PARAMETER Procedure and XStream Inbound Servers Delays Are Possible Before New Parameter Settings Take Effect When you alter a parameter value, a short amount of time might pass before the new value for the parameter takes effect. Parameters Interpreted as Positive Integers For all parameters that are interpreted as positive integers, the maximum possible value is 4,294,967,295 . Where applicable, specify INFINITE for larger values. Parameters with a System Change Number (SCN) Setting For parameters that require an SCN setting, any valid SCN value can be specified. The SET_PARAMETER Procedure and Replication You can use the following parameters in Replication if you enable XStream performance optimizations for Oracle Replication using the procedure DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM.ENABLE_GG_XSTREAM_FOR_STREAMS : apply_sequence_nextval compute_lcr_dep_on_arrival eager_size grouptransops max_parallelism max_sga_size parallelism_interval The SET_PARAMETER Procedure and XStream Outbound Servers Outbound servers ignore the settings for the following apply parameters: allow_duplicate_rows commit_serialization compare_key_only compute_lcr_dep_on_arrival disable_on_error eager_size enable_xstream_table_stats grouptransops handlecollisions optimize_self_updates parallelism parallelism_interval preserve_encryption rtrim_on_implicit_conversion suppresstriggers The commit_serialization parameter is always set to FULL for an outbound server, and the parallelism parameter is always set to 1 for an outbound server. You can use the other apply parameters with outbound servers. Note: Using XStream requires purchasing a license for the Oracle GoldenGate product. See Oracle Database XStream Guide . The SET_PARAMETER Procedure and XStream Inbound Servers Inbound servers ignore the settings for the following apply parameters: excludetag excludetrans excludeuser excludeuserid getapplops getreplicates ignore_transaction maximum_scn You can use all of the other apply component parameters with inbound servers. The default setting for the compare_key_only parameter for an inbound server is Y . The default setting for the parallelism parameter for an inbound server is 4 .