---
id: 19c__DBMS_DATA_MINING_TRANSFORM.INSERT_AUTOBIN_NUM_EQWIDTH
name: DBMS_DATA_MINING_TRANSFORM.INSERT_AUTOBIN_NUM_EQWIDTH
object_type: plsql_procedure
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_DATA_MINING_TRANSFORM
tags: [dbms_data_mining_transform]
source_file: DBMS_DATA_MINING_TRANSFORM.html
---

# DBMS_DATA_MINING_TRANSFORM.INSERT_AUTOBIN_NUM_EQWIDTH

This procedure performs numerical binning and inserts the transformation definitions in a transformation definition table. The procedure identifies the minimum and maximum values and computes the bin boundaries at equal intervals.

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_DATA_MINING_TRANSFORM.INSERT_AUTOBIN_NUM_EQWIDTH (
     bin_table_name        IN VARCHAR2,
     data_table_name       IN VARCHAR2,
     bin_num               IN PLS_INTEGER DEFAULT 3,
     max_bin_num           IN PLS_INTEGER DEFAULT 100,
     exclude_list          IN COLUMN_LIST DEFAULT NULL,
     round_num             IN PLS_INTEGER DEFAULT 6,
     sample_size           IN PLS_INTEGER DEFAULT 50000,
     bin_schema_name       IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL,
     data_schema_name      IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL,
     rem_table_name        IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL,
     rem_schema_name       IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL));
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Mode | Description |
|-----------|------|------|-------------|
| bin_table_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Name of the transformation definition table for numerical binning. You can use the CREATE_BIN_NUM Procedure to create the definition table. The following columns are required: COL VARCHAR2(30) VAL NUMBER BIN VARCHAR2(4000) CREATE_BIN_NUM creates an additional column, ATT , which may be used for specifying nested attributes. This column is not used by INSERT_AUTOBIN_NUM_EQWIDTH . |
| data_table_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Name of the table containing the data to be transformed |
| bin_num | PLS_INTEGER | IN | Minimum number of bins. If bin_num is 0 or NULL , it is ignored. The default value of bin_num is 3. |
| max_bin_num | PLS_INTEGER | IN | Maximum number of bins. If max_bin_num is 0 or NULL , it is ignored. The default value of max_bin_num is 100. |
| exclude_list | COLUMN_LIST | IN | List of numerical columns to be excluded from the binning process. If you do not specify exclude_list , all numerical columns in the data source are binned. The format of exclude_list is: dbms_data_mining_transform.COLUMN_LIST('col 1 ','col 2 ', ...'col n ') |
| round_num | PLS_INTEGER | IN | Specifies how to round the number in the VAL column of the transformation definition table. When round_num is positive, it specifies the most significant digits to retain. When round_num is negative, it specifies the least significant digits to remove. In both cases, the result is rounded to the specified number of digits. See the Usage Notes for an example. The default value of round_num is 6. |
| sample_size | PLS_INTEGER | IN | Size of the data sample. If sample_size is less than the total number of non- NULL values in the column, then sample_size is used instead of the SQL COUNT function in computing the number of bins. If sample_size is 0 or NULL , it is ignored. See the Usage Notes. The default value of sample_size is 50,000. |
| bin_schema_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Schema of bin_table_name . If no schema is specified, the current schema is used. |
| data_schema_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Schema of data_table_name . If no schema is specified, the current schema is used. |
| rem_table_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Name of a transformation definition table for column removal. The table must have the columns described in " CREATE_COL_REM Procedure " . INSERT_AUTOBIN_NUM_EQWIDTH ignores columns with all nulls or only one unique value. If you specify a value for rem_table_name , these columns are removed from the mining data. If you do not specify a value for rem_table_name , these unbinned columns remain in the data. |
| rem_schema_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Schema of rem_table_name . If no schema is specified, the current schema is used. |

## Usage Notes

INSERT_AUTOBIN_NUM_EQWIDTH computes the number of bins separately for each column. If you want to use equi-width binning with the same number of bins for each column, use the INSERT_BIN_NUM_EQWIDTH Procedure . INSERT_AUTOBIN_NUM_EQWIDTH bins all the NUMBER and FLOAT columns in the data source unless you specify a list of columns to ignore. Syntax DBMS_DATA_MINING_TRANSFORM.INSERT_AUTOBIN_NUM_EQWIDTH ( bin_table_name IN VARCHAR2, data_table_name IN VARCHAR2, bin_num IN PLS_INTEGER DEFAULT 3, max_bin_num IN PLS_INTEGER DEFAULT 100, exclude_list IN COLUMN_LIST DEFAULT NULL, round_num IN PLS_INTEGER DEFAULT 6, sample_size IN PLS_INTEGER DEFAULT 50000, bin_schema_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, data_schema_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, rem_table_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, rem_schema_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL)); Parameters Table 48-20 INSERT_AUTOBIN_NUM_EQWIDTH Procedure Parameters Parameter Description bin_table_name Name of the transformation definition table for numerical binning. You can use the CREATE_BIN_NUM Procedure to create the definition table. The following columns are required: COL VARCHAR2(30) VAL NUMBER BIN VARCHAR2(4000) CREATE_BIN_NUM creates an additional column, ATT , which may be used for specifying nested attributes. This column is not used by INSERT_AUTOBIN_NUM_EQWIDTH . data_table_name Name of the table containing the data to be transformed bin_num Minimum number of bins. If bin_num is 0 or NULL , it is ignored. The default value of bin_num is 3. max_bin_num Maximum number of bins. If max_bin_num is 0 or NULL , it is ignored. The default value of max_bin_num is 100. exclude_list List of numerical columns to be excluded from the binning process. If you do not specify exclude_list , all numerical columns in the data source are binned. The format of exclude_list is: dbms_data_mining_transform.COLUMN_LIST('col 1 ','col 2 ', ...'col n ') round_num Specifies how to round the number in the VAL column of the transformation definition table. When round_num is positive, it specifies the most significant digits to retain. When round_num is negative, it specifies the least significant digits to remove. In both cases, the result is rounded to the specified number of digits. See the Usage Notes for an example. The default value of round_num is 6. sample_size Size of the data sample. If sample_size is less than the total number of non- NULL values in the column, then sample_size is used instead of the SQL COUNT function in computing the number of bins. If sample_size is 0 or NULL , it is ignored. See the Usage Notes. The default value of sample_size is 50,000. bin_schema_name Schema of bin_table_name . If no schema is specified, the current schema is used. data_schema_name Schema of data_table_name . If no schema is specified, the current schema is used. rem_table_name Name of a transformation definition table for column removal. The table must have the columns described in " CREATE_COL_REM Procedure " . INSERT_AUTOBIN_NUM_EQWIDTH ignores columns with all nulls or only one unique value. If you specify a value for rem_table_name , these columns are removed from the mining data. If you do not specify a value for rem_table_name , these unbinned columns remain in the data. rem_schema_name Schema of rem_table_name . If no schema is specified, the current schema is used. Usage Notes See Oracle Data Mining User's Guide for details about numerical data. INSERT_AUTOBIN_NUM_EQWIDTH computes the number of bins for a column based on the number of non-null values ( COUNT ), the maximum ( MAX ), the minimum ( MIN ), the standard deviation ( STDDEV ), and the constant C=3.49/0.9: N=floor(power(COUNT,1/3)*(max-min)/(c*dev)) If the sample_size parameter is specified, it is used instead of COUNT . See Oracle Database SQL Language Reference for information about the COUNT , MAX , MIN , STDDEV , FLOOR , and POWER functions. INSERT_AUTOBIN_NUM_EQWIDTH uses absolute values to compute the number of bins. The sign of the parameters bin_num , max_bin_num , and sample_size has no effect on the result. In computing the number of bins, INSERT_AUTOBIN_NUM_EQWIDTH evaluates the following criteria in the following order: The minimum number of bins ( bin_num ) The maximum number of bins ( max_bin_num ) The maximum number of bins for integer columns, calculated as the number of distinct values in the range max-min+1 . The round_num parameter controls the rounding of column values in the transformation definition table, as follows: For a value of 308.162: when round_num = 1 result is 300 when round_num = 2 result is 310 when round_num = 3 result is 308 when round_num = 0 result is 308.162 when round_num = -1 result is 308.16 when round_num = -2 result is 308.2 Examples In this example, INSERT_AUTOBIN_NUM_EQWIDTH computes the bin boundaries for the cust_year_of_birth column in sh.customers and inserts the transformations in a transformation definition table. The STACK_BIN_NUM Procedure creates a transformation list from the contents of the definition table. The CREATE_MODEL Procedure embeds the transformation list in a new model called nb_model . The transformation and reverse transformation expressions embedded in nb_model are returned by the GET_MODEL_TRANSFORMATIONS Function . CREATE OR REPLACE VIEW mining_data AS SELECT cust_id, cust_year_of_birth, cust_postal_code FROM sh.customers; DESCRIBE mining_data Name Null? Type ----------------------------- -------- ---------------------------- CUST_ID NOT NULL NUMBER CUST_YEAR_OF_BIRTH NOT NULL NUMBER(4) CUST_POSTAL_CODE NOT NULL VARCHAR2(10) BEGIN dbms_data_mining_transform.CREATE_BIN_NUM( bin_table_name => 'bin_tbl'); dbms_data_mining_transform.INSERT_AUTOBIN_NUM_EQWIDTH ( bin_table_name => 'bin_tbl', data_table_name => 'mining_data', bin_num => 3, max_bin_num => 5, exclude_list => dbms_data_mining_transform.COLUMN_LIST('cust_id')); END; / set numwidth 4 column val off SELECT col, val, bin FROM bin_tbl ORDER BY val ASC; COL VAL BIN ------------------------- ---- ----- CUST_YEAR_OF_BIRTH 1913 CUST_YEAR_OF_BIRTH 1928 1 CUST_YEAR_OF_BIRTH 1944 2 CUST_YEAR_OF_BIRTH 1959 3 CUST_YEAR_OF_BIRTH 1975 4 CUST_YEAR_OF_BIRTH 1990 5 DECLARE year_birth_xform dbms_data_mining_transform.TRANSFORM_LIST; BEGIN dbms_data_mining_transform.STACK_BIN_NUM ( bin_table_name => 'bin_tbl', xform_list => year_birth_xform); dbms_data_mining.CREATE_MODEL( model_name => 'nb_model', mining_function => dbms_data_mining.classification, data_table_name => 'mining_data', case_id_column_name => 'cust_id', target_column_name => 'cust_postal_code', settings_table_name => null, data_schema_name => null, settings_schema_name => null, xform_list => year_birth_xform); END; / SELECT attribute_name FROM TABLE(dbms_data_mining.GET_MODEL_TRANSFORMATIONS('nb_model')); ATTRIBUTE_NAME ------------------------ CUST_YEAR_OF_BIRTH SELECT expression FROM TABLE(dbms_data_mining.GET_MODEL_TRANSFORMATIONS('nb_model')); EXPRESSION -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- CASE WHEN "CUST_YEAR_OF_BIRTH"<1913 THEN NULL WHEN "CUST_YEAR_OF_BIRTH"<=1928.4 THEN '1' WHEN "CUST_YEAR_OF_BIRTH"<=1943.8 THEN '2' WHEN "CUST_YEAR_OF_BIRTH" <=1959.2 THEN '3' WHEN "CUST_YEAR_OF_BIRTH"<=1974.6 THEN '4' WHEN "CUST_YEAR_OF_BIRTH" <=1990 THEN '5' END SELECT reverse_expression FROM TABLE(dbms_data_mining.GET_MODEL_TRANSFORMATIONS('nb_model')); REVERSE_EXPRESSION -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- DECODE("CUST_YEAR_OF_BIRTH",'5','(1974.6; 1990]','1','[1913; 1928.4]','2','(1928 .4; 1943.8]','3','(1943.8; 1959.2]','4','(1959.2; 1974.6]',NULL,'( ; 1913), (199 0; ), NULL')