---
id: 19c__DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM.SPLIT_STREAMS
name: DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM.SPLIT_STREAMS
object_type: plsql_procedure
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM
tags: [dbms_xstream_adm]
source_file: DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM.html
---

# DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM.SPLIT_STREAMS

This procedure splits one stream flowing from a capture process off from all of the other streams flowing from the capture process.

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM.SPLIT_STREAMS(
   propagation_name         IN      VARCHAR2,
   cloned_propagation_name  IN      VARCHAR2  DEFAULT NULL,
   cloned_queue_name        IN      VARCHAR2  DEFAULT NULL,
   cloned_capture_name      IN      VARCHAR2  DEFAULT NULL,
   perform_actions          IN      BOOLEAN   DEFAULT TRUE,
   script_name              IN      VARCHAR2  DEFAULT NULL,
   script_directory_object  IN      VARCHAR2  DEFAULT NULL,
   auto_merge_threshold     IN      NUMBER    DEFAULT NULL,
   schedule_name            IN OUT  VARCHAR2,
   merge_job_name           IN OUT  VARCHAR2);
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Mode | Description |
|-----------|------|------|-------------|
| propagation_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | The name of the propagation that cannot send LCRs to its destination queue. The specified propagation is the propagation for the stream that is being split off from the other streams. You must specify an existing propagation name. Do not specify an owner. |
| cloned_propagation_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | The name of the new propagation created by this procedure for the stream that is split off. If NULL , then the system generates a propagation name. |
| cloned_queue_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | The name of the new queue created by this procedure for the stream that is split off. If NULL , then the system generates a queue name. |
| cloned_capture_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | The name of the new capture process created by this procedure for the stream that is split off. If NULL , then the system generates a capture process name. |
| perform_actions | BOOLEAN | IN | If TRUE , then the procedure performs the necessary actions to split the stream directly. If FALSE , then the procedure does not perform the necessary actions to split the stream directly. Specify FALSE when this procedure is generating a script that you can edit and then run. The procedure raises an error if you specify FALSE and either of the following parameters is NULL : script_name script_directory_object |
| script_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | If non- NULL and the perform_actions parameter is FALSE , then specify the name of the script generated by this procedure. The script contains all of the statements used to split the stream. If a file with the specified script name exists in the specified directory for the script_directory_object parameter, then the procedure appends the statements to the existing file. If non- NULL and the perform_actions parameter is TRUE , then the procedure generates the specified script and performs the actions to split the stream directly. If NULL and the perform_actions parameter is TRUE , then the procedure performs the actions to split the stream directly and does not generate a script. If NULL and the perform_actions parameter is FALSE , then the procedure raises an error. |
| script_directory_object | VARCHAR2 | IN | The directory object for the directory on the local computer system into which the generated script is placed. If the script_name parameter is NULL , then the procedure ignores this parameter and does not generate a script. If NULL and the script_name parameter is non- NULL , then the procedure raises an error. Note: The specified directory object cannot point to an Oracle Automatic Storage Management (ASM) disk group. |
| auto_merge_threshold | NUMBER | IN | If a positive number is specified, then the stream that was split off is automatically merged back into all of the other streams flowing from the capture process by an Oracle Scheduler job. The job runs the MERGE_STREAMS_JOB procedure at set intervals according to its schedule. The value of the CAPTURE_MESSAGE_CREATE_TIME column for each capture process in the GV$XSTREAM_CAPTURE dynamic performance view determines when the streams are merged. Specifically, if the difference, in seconds, between CAPTURE_MESSAGE_CREATE_TIME of the cloned capture process and the original capture process is less than or equal to the value specified for the auto_merge_threshold parameter, then the two streams are merged automatically. The cloned capture process must be started before the split stream can be merged back with the original stream. If NULL or 0 (zero) is specified, then the split stream is not merged back with the original stream automatically. To merge the split stream with the original stream, run the MERGE_STREAM procedure manually when the CAPTURE_MESSAGE_CREATE_TIME of the cloned capture process catches up to, or nearly catches up to, the CAPTURE_MESSAGE_CREATE_TIME of the original capture process. The CAPTURE_MESSAGE_CREATE_TIME records the time when a captured change was recorded in the redo log. |
| schedule_name | VARCHAR2 | IN OUT | The Oracle Scheduler schedule name, specified as [ schema_name .] schedule_name . For example, strmadmin.merge_schedule . If the schema is not specified, then the current user is the default. If auto_merge_threshold is a non- NULL positive number, then the schedule is used by the job that will automatically merge the streams at the appropriate time. You can specify a schedule name to adhere to naming conventions or to track the schedule more easily. If NULL and auto_merge_threshold is a non- NULL positive number, then the system generates a schedule name. If auto_merge_threshold is NULL or 0 (zero), then this parameter must be NULL . If this procedure creates a schedule, the schedule starts when the procedure completes. You can modify the schedule to control how often the merge job is run. If an existing schedule name is specified, an error is raised. |
| merge_job_name | VARCHAR2) | IN OUT | The Oracle Scheduler job name, specified as [ schema_name .] merge_job_name . For example, strmadmin.merge_job . If the schema is not specified, then the current user is the default. If auto_merge_threshold is a non- NULL positive number, then the job will automatically merge the streams at the appropriate time. Specify a merge job name to adhere to naming conventions or to track the job more easily. If NULL and auto_merge_threshold is a non- NULL positive number, then the system generates a job name. If auto_merge_threshold is NULL or 0 (zero), then this parameter must be NULL . If an existing job name is specified, an error is raised. |

## Usage Notes

This procedure is intended for an Oracle Replication environment in which a capture process captures changes that are propagated to two or more destination databases. When one destination of a propagation stops accepting the captured changes, the changes remain in the capture process's queue. The queue can grow and begin to spill LCRs to the hard disk, degrading the performance of the Oracle Replication environment. A destination might stop accepting changes for several reasons. For example, the destination database might be down. Specifically, this procedure performs the following actions: Creates a new queue at the database running the capture process. The new queue is called the cloned queue because it is a clone of the queue used by the original stream. The new queue will be used by the new, cloned capture process, and it will be the source queue for the new, cloned propagation. Creates a new propagation that propagates LCRs from the source queue created in Step 1 to the existing destination queue. The new propagation is called the cloned propagation because it is a clone of the propagation used by the original stream. The cloned propagation uses the same rule set as the original propagation. Stops the capture process. Queries the acknowledge SCN for the original propagation. The acknowledged SCN is the last SCN acknowledged by the apply process that applies the changes sent by the propagation. Creates a new capture process. The new capture process is called the cloned capture process because it is a clone of the capture process used by the original stream. The procedure sets the start SCN for the cloned capture process to the value of the queried acknowledged SCN. The cloned capture process uses the same rule set as the original capture process. Drops the original propagation. Starts the original capture process with the start SCN set to the acknowledged SCN queried in Step 4 . If the auto_merge_threshold parameter is set to a positive number, then creates an Oracle Scheduler job to run the MERGE_STREAMS_JOB procedure at set intervals according to its schedule. When the two streams are within the specified merge threshold, the MERGE_STREAMS_JOB procedure runs the MERGE_STREAMS procedure to merge the streams automatically. After the SPLIT_STREAMS procedure has finished running, the cloned capture process is disabled. When the problem at the destination database is solved, and the destination queue can accept changes, you should start the cloned capture process using the START_CAPTURE procedure in the DBMS_CAPTURE_ADM package. Note: If the original capture process is a downstream capture process, then you must configure the cloned capture process to read the redo log from the source database before you start the cloned capture process. See Also: " MERGE_STREAMS Procedure " " MERGE_STREAMS_JOB Procedure " Note: If the original capture process is a downstream capture process, then you must configure the cloned capture process to read the redo log from the source database before you start the cloned capture process. See Also: " MERGE_STREAMS Procedure " " MERGE_STREAMS_JOB Procedure " Syntax DBMS_XSTREAM_ADM.SPLIT_STREAMS( propagation_name IN VARCHAR2, cloned_propagation_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, cloned_queue_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, cloned_capture_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, perform_actions IN BOOLEAN DEFAULT TRUE, script_name IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, script_directory_object IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, auto_merge_threshold IN NUMBER DEFAULT NULL, schedule_name IN OUT VARCHAR2, merge_job_name IN OUT VARCHAR2); Parameters Table 217-36 SPLIT_STREAMS Procedure Parameters Parameter Description propagation_name The name of the propagation that cannot send LCRs to its destination queue. The specified propagation is the propagation for the stream that is being split off from the other streams. You must specify an existing propagation name. Do not specify an owner. cloned_propagation_name The name of the new propagation created by this procedure for the stream that is split off. If NULL , then the system generates a propagation name. cloned_queue_name The name of the new queue created by this procedure for the stream that is split off. If NULL , then the system generates a queue name. cloned_capture_name The name of the new capture process created by this procedure for the stream that is split off. If NULL , then the system generates a capture process name. perform_actions If TRUE , then the procedure performs the necessary actions to split the stream directly. If FALSE , then the procedure does not perform the necessary actions to split the stream directly. Specify FALSE when this procedure is generating a script that you can edit and then run. The procedure raises an error if you specify FALSE and either of the following parameters is NULL : script_name script_directory_object script_name If non- NULL and the perform_actions parameter is FALSE , then specify the name of the script generated by this procedure. The script contains all of the statements used to split the stream. If a file with the specified script name exists in the specified directory for the script_directory_object parameter, then the procedure appends the statements to the existing file. If non- NULL and the perform_actions parameter is TRUE , then the procedure generates the specified script and performs the actions to split the stream directly. If NULL and the perform_actions parameter is TRUE , then the procedure performs the actions to split the stream directly and does not generate a script. If NULL and the perform_actions parameter is FALSE , then the procedure raises an error. script_directory_object The directory object for the directory on the local computer system into which the generated script is placed. If the script_name parameter is NULL , then the procedure ignores this parameter and does not generate a script. If NULL and the script_name parameter is non- NULL , then the procedure raises an error. Note: The specified directory object cannot point to an Oracle Automatic Storage Management (ASM) disk group. auto_merge_threshold If a positive number is specified, then the stream that was split off is automatically merged back into all of the other streams flowing from the capture process by an Oracle Scheduler job. The job runs the MERGE_STREAMS_JOB procedure at set intervals according to its schedule. The value of the CAPTURE_MESSAGE_CREATE_TIME column for each capture process in the GV$XSTREAM_CAPTURE dynamic performance view determines when the streams are merged. Specifically, if the difference, in seconds, between CAPTURE_MESSAGE_CREATE_TIME of the cloned capture process and the original capture process is less than or equal to the value specified for the auto_merge_threshold parameter, then the two streams are merged automatically. The cloned capture process must be started before the split stream can be merged back with the original stream. If NULL or 0 (zero) is specified, then the split stream is not merged back with the original stream automatically. To merge the split stream with the original stream, run the MERGE_STREAM procedure manually when the CAPTURE_MESSAGE_CREATE_TIME of the cloned capture process catches up to, or nearly catches up to, the CAPTURE_MESSAGE_CREATE_TIME of the original capture process. The CAPTURE_MESSAGE_CREATE_TIME records the time when a captured change was recorded in the redo log. schedule_name The Oracle Scheduler schedule name, specified as [ schema_name .] schedule_name . For example, strmadmin.merge_schedule . If the schema is not specified, then the current user is the default. If auto_merge_threshold is a non- NULL positive number, then the schedule is used by the job that will automatically merge the streams at the appropriate time. You can specify a schedule name to adhere to naming conventions or to track the schedule more easily. If NULL and auto_merge_threshold is a non- NULL positive number, then the system generates a schedule name. If auto_merge_threshold is NULL or 0 (zero), then this parameter must be NULL . If this procedure creates a schedule, the schedule starts when the procedure completes. You can modify the schedule to control how often the merge job is run. If an existing schedule name is specified, an error is raised. merge_job_name The Oracle Scheduler job name, specified as [ schema_name .] merge_job_name . For example, strmadmin.merge_job . If the schema is not specified, then the current user is the default. If auto_merge_threshold is a non- NULL positive number, then the job will automatically merge the streams at the appropriate time. Specify a merge job name to adhere to naming conventions or to track the job more easily. If NULL and auto_merge_threshold is a non- NULL positive number, then the system generates a job name. If auto_merge_threshold is NULL or 0 (zero), then this parameter must be NULL . If an existing job name is specified, an error is raised. See Also: Oracle Database Administrator's Guide for information about Oracle Scheduler