---
id: 19c__DBMS_STATS.SET_TABLE_PREFS
name: DBMS_STATS.SET_TABLE_PREFS
object_type: plsql_procedure
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_STATS
tags: [dbms_stats]
source_file: DBMS_STATS.html
---

# DBMS_STATS.SET_TABLE_PREFS

This procedure sets the statistics preferences of the specified table in the specified schema.

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_STATS.SET_TABLE_PREFS (
    ownname    IN  VARCHAR2,
    tabname    IN  VARCHAR2,
    pname      IN  VARCHAR2,
    pvalue     IN  VARCHAR2);
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Mode | Description |
|-----------|------|------|-------------|
| ownname | VARCHAR2 | IN | Owner name |
| tabname | VARCHAR2 | IN | Table name |
| pname | VARCHAR2 | IN | Preference name. You can set the default value for following preferences: APPROXIMATE_NDV_ALGORITHM AUTO_STAT_EXTENSIONS CASCADE DEGREE ESTIMATE_PERCENT GRANULARITY INCREMENTAL INCREMENTAL_LEVEL INCREMENTAL_STALENESS METHOD_OPT NO_INVALIDATE OPTIONS PREFERENCE_OVERRIDES_PARAMETER PUBLISH STALE_PERCENT TABLE_CACHED_BLOCKS |
| pvalue | VARCHAR2) | IN | Preference value. If NULL is specified, it will set the Oracle default value. |

## Usage Notes

Syntax DBMS_STATS.SET_TABLE_PREFS ( ownname IN VARCHAR2, tabname IN VARCHAR2, pname IN VARCHAR2, pvalue IN VARCHAR2); Parameters Table 171-131 SET_TABLE_PREFS Procedure Parameters Parameter Description ownname Owner name tabname Table name pname Preference name. You can set the default value for following preferences: APPROXIMATE_NDV_ALGORITHM AUTO_STAT_EXTENSIONS CASCADE DEGREE ESTIMATE_PERCENT GRANULARITY INCREMENTAL INCREMENTAL_LEVEL INCREMENTAL_STALENESS METHOD_OPT NO_INVALIDATE OPTIONS PREFERENCE_OVERRIDES_PARAMETER PUBLISH STALE_PERCENT TABLE_CACHED_BLOCKS pvalue Preference value. If NULL is specified, it will set the Oracle default value. Table 171-132 Statistics Preferences Preference Description APPROXIMATE_NDV_ALGORITHM Specifies the synopsis generation algorithm. A synopsis is special type of statistic that tracks the number of distinct values (NDV) for each column in a partition. Consider a synopsis as an internal management structure that samples distinct values. You can specify the following preferences: REPEAT OR HYPERLOGLOG This is the default. If INCREMENTAL is enabled on the table, then the database preserves the format of any existing synopses that use the adaptive sampling algorithm. However, the database creates any new synopses in HyperLogLog format. This approach is attractive when existing performance is acceptable, and you do not want to incur the performance cost of reformatting legacy content. ADAPTIVE SAMPLING The database uses the adaptive sampling algorithm for all synopses. This is the most conservative option. HYPERLOGLOG The database uses the HyperLogLog algorithm for all new and stale synopses. In contrast to adaptive sampling, the HyperLogLog algorithm uses a randomization technique. The advantages of HyperLogLog over adaptive sampling are: The accuracy of the new algorithm is similar to the original algorithm. The memory required is significantly lower, which typically leads to huge reductions in synopsis size. AUTO_STAT_EXTENSIONS Controls the automatic creation of extensions when database statistics are gathered. You can set the following values: ON — When applicable, a SQL plan directive can trigger the creation of column group statistics based on usage of columns in the predicates in the workload. OFF — The database does not create column group statistics automatically. The database creates them only when the CREATE_EXTENDED_STATS function is executed, or when extended statistics are specified explicitly in the METHOD_OPT clause of DBMS_STATS . This is the default. CASCADE Determines whether to collect index statistics as part of gathering table statistics. CONCURRENT This preference determines whether statistics will be gathered concurrently on multiple objects, or serially, one object at a time: 'MANUAL' - Concurrency will be turned on only for manual statistics gathering. 'AUTOMATIC' : Concurrency will be turned on only for the automatic statistics gathering. 'ALL' : Concurrency will be turned on for both manual and automatic statistics gathering. 'OFF' : Concurrency will be turned off for both manual and automatic statistics DEGREE Determines degree of parallelism used for gathering statistics. ESTIMATE_PERCENT Determines the percentage of rows to estimate. The valid range is [0.000001,100]. Use the constant DBMS_STATS . AUTO_SAMPLE_SIZE to have Oracle determine the appropriate sample size for good statistics. This is the default. GLOBAL_TEMP_TABLE_STATS This controls whether the statistics gathered for a global temporary table should be stored as shared statistics or session statistics. It takes two values: SHARED - All sessions see the same set of statistics SESSION - Statistics gathered by the GATHER_TABLE_STATS Procedure on a global temporary table are session specific, and hence are only going to be used by the queries issued in the same session as the statistics gathering process. Session-specific statistics are deleted when a session is ended. GRANULARITY Determines granularity of statistics to collect (only pertinent if the table is partitioned). 'ALL' - Gathers all (subpartition, partition, and global) statistics 'AUTO' - Determines the granularity based on the partitioning type. This is the default value. 'DEFAULT' - Gathers global and partition-level statistics. This option is obsolete, and while currently supported, it is included in the documentation for legacy reasons only. You should use the ' GLOBAL AND PARTITION ' for this functionality. Note that the default value is now ' AUTO '. 'GLOBAL' - Gathers global statistics ' GLOBAL AND PARTITION ' - Gathers the global and partition level statistics. No subpartition level statistics are gathered even if it is a composite partitioned object. 'PARTITION '- Gathers partition-level statistics 'SUBPARTITION' - Gathers subpartition-level statistics. INCREMENTAL Determines whether or not the global statistics of a partitioned table will be maintained without doing a full table scan. With partitioned tables it is very common to load new data into a new partition. As new partitions are added and data loaded, the global table statistics need to be kept up to date. Oracle will update the global table statistics by scanning only the partitions that have been changed instead of the entire table if the following conditions hold: INCREMENTAL value for the partitioned table is set to TRUE ; PUBLISH value for the partitioned table is set to TRUE ; User specifies AUTO_SAMPLE_SIZE for ESTIMATE_PERCENT and AUTO for GRANULARITY when gathering statistics on the table. If the INCREMENTAL value for the partitioned table was set to FALSE (default value), a full table scan is used to maintain the global statistics which is a much more resource intensive and time-consuming operation for large tables. INCREMENTAL_LEVEL This value controls what synopses to collect when INCREMENTAL preference is set to TRUE It takes two values: TABLE - table level synopses are gathered. This is used when you want to exchange this table with a partition. You can run GATHER_TABLE_STATS on this table with INCREMENTAL to TRUE and INCREMENTAL_LEVEL to TABLE before the exchange. The result is that table level synopses are gathered on this table (currently Oracle supports only table level synopses on non-predestined tables). Once the exchange occurs, the partition will have synopses which come from the table level synopses of the table before exchange. This preference value can be only used in the SET_TABLE_PREFS Procedure . It is not allowed in the SET_GLOBAL/DATABASE/SCHEMA_PREFS procedures. PARTITION - partition level synopses are gathered. This is the default value. If PARTITION is set on a non partitioned table, no synopses are gathered. INCREMENTAL_STALENESS Specifies when a partition or subpartition is considered stale. This parameter takes an enumeration of values, such as 'USE_STALE_PERCENT' and 'USE_LOCKED_STATS' . You can also specify multiple values, such as 'USE_STALE_PERCENT,USE_LOCKED_STATS,ALLOW_MIXED_FORMAT' . The parameter accepts the following values: USE_STALE_PERCENT —A partition or subpartition is not considered stale when DML changes are below the threshold set by the STALE_PERCENT preference. For example, assume that STALE_PERCENT is 10 . You specify USE_STALE_PERCEMENT for INCREMENTAL_STALENESS . The partition has 5% DML changes. The database does not regather statistics. Assume a different case in which STALE_PERCENT is 10 . You specify USE_STALE_PERCEMENT for INCREMENTAL_STALENESS . However, in this case the partition is locked and has 20% of DML changes. Because the partition is locked, the database does not regather statistics. USE_LOCKED_STATS —Locked partitions or subpartitions statistics are never considered stale, regardless of DML changes. For example, assume that STALE_PERCENT is 10 . You specify 'USE_LOCKED_STATS, USE_STALE_PERCENT' . The partition, which is locked, has 20% DML changes. The partition is not considered stale. The database uses existing statistics to derive global statistics. ALLOW_MIXED_FORMAT —Adaptive sampling synopses and HyperLogLog synopses are permitted to coexist. NULL —A partition or subpartition is considered stale when it has any DML changes. For example, assume that STALE_PERCENT is 10 . You specify the value 'NULL' for INCREMENTAL_STALENESS . The partition has 5% of DML changes. The database regathers statistics. Note that the following two executions are different: EXEC DBMS_STATS.SET_TABLE_PREFS ('sh', 'sales', 'INCREMENTAL_STALENESS', 'NULL'); EXEC DBMS_STATS.SET_TABLE_PREFS ('sh', 'sales', 'INCREMENTAL_STALENESS', null); The first execution uses single quotes to set the preference to the value NULL , whereas the second sets the preference to the default, which is ALLOW_MIXED_FORMAT . METHOD_OPT The value controls column statistics collection and histogram creation. It accepts either of the following options, or both in combination: FOR ALL [INDEXED | HIDDEN] COLUMNS [size_clause] size_clause is defined as size_clause := SIZE {integer | REPEAT | AUTO | SKEWONLY} - integer : Number of histogram buckets. Must be in the range [1,2048]. - REPEAT : Collects histograms only on the columns that already have histograms - AUTO : Oracle determines the columns on which to collect histograms based on data distribution and the workload of the columns - SKEWONLY : Oracle determines the columns on which to collect histograms based on the data distribution of the columns - column_name : name of a column - extension : can be either a column group in the format of (column_name, colume_name [, ...]) or an expression The default is FOR ALL COLUMNS SIZE AUTO . NO_INVALIDATE Controls the invalidation of dependent cursors when statistics are gathered. The parameter takes the following values: TRUE : Dependent cursors are not invalidated. FALSE : Dependent cursors are marked for immediate invalidation. AUTO : This is the default value. Rolling invalidation is used to invalidate all dependent cursors over a period of time. The performance impact on the database is reduced especially in cases where a large number of cursors are invalidated. You can change the default using the SET_DATABASE_PREFS Procedure , SET_GLOBAL_PREFS Procedure , SET_SCHEMA_PREFS Procedure and SET_TABLE_PREFS Procedure . OPTIONS Determines the options parameter used in the GATHER_TABLE_STATS procedure. The preference takes the following values: GATHER — Gathers statistics for all objects in the table. This is the default. GATHER AUTO — Oracle recommends using GATHER AUTO to gather necessary statistics, such as histograms, after a table has been bulk loaded and acquired online statistics. This is applicable only to tables that are not using INCREMENTAL statistics. For partitioned tables using INCREMENTAL statistics, GATHER_TABLE_STATS with GATHER AUTO will gather statistics for a table if it is marked stale or has no statistics. In addition, statistics will be gathered for partitions and sub-partitions that are marked stale or have no statistics. For tables not using INCREMENTAL statistics, GATHER_TABLE_STATS with GATHER AUTO may gather statistics for partitions and sub-partitions, even if they are not marked stale. PREFERENCE_OVERRIDES_PARAMETER Determines whether to override the input value of a parameter with the preference value of that parameter for a statistics operation. Possible values are: TRUE — Ignores input parameter values, and uses the value of the corresponding preference. FALSE — Obeys input parameter values. Specifying this preference does not change the order of precedence of table, global, and default. PUBLISH Determines whether the database publishes newly gathered statistics after the gathering job completes. You can gather statistics without publishing them immediately. This technique enables you to test new statistics before publishing them. STALE_PERCENT Determines the percentage of rows in a table that must change before the statistics on that table are stale and need to be regathered. The valid domain for stale_percent is non-negative numbers. The default value is 10 , which means that a table having more than 10% of changes is considered stale. Exceptions ORA-20000 : Object does not exist or insufficient privileges ORA-20001 : Invalid or illegal input values Usage Notes To run this procedure, you must connect as owner of the table or have the ANALYZE ANY system privilege. All arguments are of type VARCHAR2 and values are enclosed in quotes, even when they represent numbers. Examples DBMS_STATS.SET_TABLE_PREFS('SH', 'SALES', 'CASCADE', 'DBMS_STATS.AUTO_CASCADE'); DBMS_STATS.SET_TABLE_PREFS('SH', 'SALES', 'ESTIMATE_PERCENT', '9'); DBMS_STATS.SET_TABLE_PREFS('SH', 'SALES', 'DEGREE', '99');