---
id: 19c__DBMS_STATS.DELETE_SCHEMA_PREFS
name: DBMS_STATS.DELETE_SCHEMA_PREFS
object_type: plsql_procedure
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_STATS
tags: [dbms_stats]
source_file: DBMS_STATS.html
---

# DBMS_STATS.DELETE_SCHEMA_PREFS

This procedure is used to delete the statistics preferences of all the tables owned by the specified owner name.

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_STATS.DELETE_SCHEMA_PREFS (
    ownname   IN   VARCHAR2,
    pname     IN   VARCHAR2);
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Mode | Description |
|-----------|------|------|-------------|
| ownname | VARCHAR2 | IN | Owner name |
| pname | VARCHAR2) | IN | Preference name. The existing value for following preferences can be deleted and default preference values will be used: APPROXIMATE_NDV_ALGORITHM AUTO_STAT_EXTENSIONS CASCADE DEGREE ESTIMATE_PERCENT GLOBAL_TEMP_TABLE_STATS GRANULARITY INCREMENTAL INCREMENTAL_LEVEL INCREMENTAL_STALENESS METHOD_OPT NO_INVALIDATE OPTIONS PREFERENCE_OVERRIDES_PARAMETER PUBLISH STALE_PERCENT TABLE_CACHED_BLOCKS |

## Usage Notes

Syntax DBMS_STATS.DELETE_SCHEMA_PREFS ( ownname IN VARCHAR2, pname IN VARCHAR2); Parameters Table 171-26 DELETE_SCHEMA_PREFS Procedure Parameters Parameter Description ownname Owner name pname Preference name. The existing value for following preferences can be deleted and default preference values will be used: APPROXIMATE_NDV_ALGORITHM AUTO_STAT_EXTENSIONS CASCADE DEGREE ESTIMATE_PERCENT GLOBAL_TEMP_TABLE_STATS GRANULARITY INCREMENTAL INCREMENTAL_LEVEL INCREMENTAL_STALENESS METHOD_OPT NO_INVALIDATE OPTIONS PREFERENCE_OVERRIDES_PARAMETER PUBLISH STALE_PERCENT TABLE_CACHED_BLOCKS Table 171-27 Statistics Preferences Preference Description APPROXIMATE_NDV_ALGORITHM Specifies the synopsis generation algorithm. A synopsis is special type of statistic that tracks the number of distinct values (NDV) for each column in a partition. You can consider a synopsis as an internal management structure that samples distinct values. You can set the following values: REPEAT OR HYPERLOGLOG This is the default. If INCREMENTAL is enabled on the table, then the database preserves the format of any existing synopses that use the adaptive sampling algorithm. However, the database creates any new synopses in HyperLogLog format. ADAPTIVE SAMPLING The database uses the adaptive sampling algorithm for all synopses. HYPERLOGLOG The database uses the HyperLogLog algorithm for all new and stale synopses. AUTO_STAT_EXTENSIONS Controls the automatic creation of extensions when database statistics are gathered. You can set the following values: ON — When applicable, a SQL plan directive can trigger the creation of column group statistics based on usage of columns in the predicates in the workload. OFF — The database does not create column group statistics automatically. The database creates them only when the CREATE_EXTENDED_STATS function is executed, or when extended statistics are specified explicitly in the METHOD_OPT clause of DBMS_STATS . This is the default. CASCADE Determines whether index statistics are collected as part of gathering table statistics. COORDINATOR_TRIGGER_SHARD User of each shard uses this preference to determine whether to allow shard coordinator to interact with the statistics gathering in each shards. While gathering the statistics in shard coordinator, if the statistics in one of the shards are not up to date, the shard coordinator will try to trigger the statistics gathering in that shard. By using this preference, user can execute or ignore that command from the shard coordinator. You can set the following values: TRUE —Allows the shard coordinator trigger the statistics gathering on sharded table in local shard if the statistics on local shard are stale. FALSE —Ignores the statistics gathering command triggered from the shard coordinator. The default value is FALSE . DEGREE Determines the degree of parallelism used for gathering statistics. ESTIMATE_PERCENT The value determines the percentage of rows to estimate. METHOD_OPT Controls column statistics collection and histogram creation. When setting preferences at the global, schema, database, or dictionary level, only FOR ALL syntax is allowed. NO_INVALIDATE Controls the invalidation of dependent cursors when statistics are gathered. The parameter takes the following values: TRUE : Dependent cursors are not invalidated. FALSE : Dependent cursors are marked for immediate invalidation. AUTO : This is the default value. Rolling invalidation is used to invalidate all dependent cursors over a period of time. The performance impact on the database is reduced especially in cases where a large number of cursors are invalidated. The default can be changed using the SET_DATABASE_PREFS Procedure , SET_GLOBAL_PREFS Procedure , SET_SCHEMA_PREFS Procedure and SET_TABLE_PREFS Procedure . GRANULARITY The value determines granularity of statistics to collect (only pertinent if the table is partitioned) PUBLISH This value determines whether or not newly gathered statistics will be published once the gather job has completed. INCREMENTAL This value determines whether or not the global statistics of a partitioned table will be maintained without doing a full table scan. INCREMENTAL_LEVEL This value controls what synopses to collect when INCREMENTAL preference is set to TRUE . INCREMENTAL_STALENESS Specifies when a partition or subpartition is considered stale. This parameter takes an enumeration of values, such as 'USE_STALE_PERCENT' and 'USE_LOCKED_STATS' . You can also specify multiple values, such as 'USE_STALE_PERCENT,USE_LOCKED_STATS,ALLOW_MIXED_FORMAT' . The parameter accepts the following values: USE_STALE_PERCENT —A partition or subpartition is not considered stale when DML changes are below the threshold set by the STALE_PERCENT preference. For example, assume that STALE_PERCENT is 10 . You specify USE_STALE_PERCEMENT for INCREMENTAL_STALENESS . The partition has 5% DML changes. The database does not regather statistics. Assume a different case in which STALE_PERCENT is 10 . You specify USE_STALE_PERCEMENT for INCREMENTAL_STALENESS . However, in this case the partition is locked and has 20% of DML changes. Because the partition is locked, the database does not regather statistics. USE_LOCKED_STATS —Locked partitions or subpartitions statistics are never considered stale, regardless of DML changes. For example, assume that STALE_PERCENT is 10 . You specify 'USE_LOCKED_STATS, USE_STALE_PERCENT' . The partition, which is locked, has 20% DML changes. The partition is not considered stale. The database uses existing statistics to derive global statistics. ALLOW_MIXED_FORMAT —Adaptive sampling synopses and HyperLogLog synopses are permitted to coexist. NULL —A partition or subpartition is considered stale when it has any DML changes. For example, assume that STALE_PERCENT is 10 . You specify the value 'NULL' for INCREMENTAL_STALENESS . The partition has 5% of DML changes. The database regathers statistics. Note that the following two executions are different: EXEC DBMS_STATS.SET_TABLE_PREFS ('sh', 'sales', 'INCREMENTAL_STALENESS', 'NULL'); EXEC DBMS_STATS.SET_TABLE_PREFS ('sh', 'sales', 'INCREMENTAL_STALENESS', null); The first execution uses single quotes to set the preference to the value NULL , whereas the second sets the preference to the default, which is ALLOW_MIXED_FORMAT . ROOT_TRIGGER_PDB The application PDB user, uses this preference to determine whether to allow the application root to interact with the statics gathering in PDB. During the statistics gathering of a metadata linked table in the application root, if the statistics in a PDB are in stale state, the application root triggers the statistics gathering for the particular PDB. Using this preference, the user can either execute or ignore the command from the application root. You can set the following values: TRUE —Allows the application root trigger the statistics gathering on metadata linked table in application PDB if the statistics on PDB are stale. FALSE —Ignores the statistics gathering command triggered from application root. The default value is FALSE . Note: CDB root, different from application root, never triggers statistics gathering on the PDBs and it is not controlled by this preference. STALE_PERCENT This value determines the percentage of rows in a table that have to change before the statistics on that table are deemed stale and should be regathered. GLOBAL_TEMP_TABLE_STATS This controls whether the statistics gathered for a global temporary table should be stored as shared statistics or session statistics. TABLE_CACHED_BLOCKS Specifies the average number of blocks assumed to be cached in the buffer cache when calculating the index clustering factor. The preference applies only when gathering statistics using DBMS_STATS . Index statistics gathered during CREATE INDEX or REBUILD INDEX operations will use the default value 1. OPTIONS Determines the options parameter used in the GATHER_TABLE_STATS Procedure . Note: CDB root, different from application root, never triggers statistics gathering on the PDBs and it is not controlled by this preference. Security Model To run this procedure, you must be the object owner, or have the SYSDBA privilege, or have the ANALYZE ANY system privilege. Exceptions ORA-20000 : Insufficient privileges / Schema "<schema>" does not exist ORA-20001 : Invalid or Illegal input values