---
id: 19c__DBMS_SERVICE.CREATE_SERVICE
name: DBMS_SERVICE.CREATE_SERVICE
object_type: plsql_procedure
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_SERVICE
tags: [dbms_service]
source_file: DBMS_SERVICE.html
---

# DBMS_SERVICE.CREATE_SERVICE

This procedure creates a service name in the data dictionary. Services are also created in the data dictionary implicitly when you set the service in the service_name parameter or by means of the ALTER SYSTEM SET SERVICE_NAMES command.

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_SERVICE.CREATE_SERVICE(
   service_name               IN VARCHAR2, 
   network_name               IN VARCHAR2,
   parameter_array            IN TABLE OF VARCHAR2(100));
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Mode | Description |
|-----------|------|------|-------------|
| service_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Name of the service, limited to 64 characters in the Data Dictionary |
| network_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | Network name of the service as used in SQLNet connect descriptors for client connections. This is limited to the NET service_names character set (see Oracle Database Net Services Reference ). |
| parameter_array | TABLE | IN | Associative array with name-value pairs of the service attributes. Supported names: goal dtp aq_ha_notifications failover_method failover_type failover_retries failover_restore failover_delay clb_goal edition commit_outcome retention_timeout replay_initiation_timeout session_state_consistency sql_translation_profile drain_timeout stop_option placement_policy |
| goal |  |  | Workload management goal directive for the service. Valid values: DBMS_SERVICE . GOAL_SERVICE_TIME DBMS_SERVICE . GOAL_THROUGHPUT DBMS_SERVICE . GOAL_NONE |
| dtp |  |  | Declares the service to be for X/Open Distributed Transaction Processing (DTP) or any distributed transaction (especially XA) |
| aq_ha_notifications |  |  | Determines whether Fast Application Notification (FAN) is enabled for OCI/OCCI/ODP. In Oracle Database12 c , FAN uses Oracle Notification Services (ONS). This parameter is still used to enable FAN. FAN is recommended for all High Availability systems, and is on by default for Application Continuity |
| failover_method |  |  | Failover TYPE for the service for Application Continuity and TAF. If the failover_type is set to TRANSACTION on the service, this automatically sets COMMIT_OUTCOME to TRUE . JDBC Replay Driver uses the FAILOVER_TYPE service attribute setting of TRANSACTION for TRANSACTION failover. OCI uses the older settings of SELECT and SESSION . The server only accepts FAILOVER_METHOD = BASIC with the TRANSACTION setting. |
| failover_type |  |  | TRANSACTION for Application Continuity. SELECT or BASIC for TAF. |
| failover_retries |  |  | Number of connection retries for Application Continuity and TAF. Using the failover_retries and failover_delay parameters, the failover can be delayed until the service is next available. This parameter is for connecting. It does not control the number of failovers, which is 3 for each incident for Application Continuity. |
| failover_delay |  |  | Delay in seconds between connection retries for Application Continuity and TAF. The default is 10 seconds for Application Continuity. Do not use a 0-second delay if the service needs time to failover and register. Long delays are good for planned outages and to failover to Data Guard. Short delays work well with RAC when the service is already available. |
| edition |  |  | If this argument has a non- NULL value, this provides the initial session edition for subsequent database connections using this service that do not specify an edition. If no value is specified, this argument has no effect. During service creation or modification, no validation is performed on this parameter. At connection time, if the connecting user does not have USE privilege on the edition, or the edition does not exist, this raises the error ORA-38802 (edition does not exist). |
| drain_timeout |  |  | If this parameter is defined, all sessions connected to that service are drained by the client drivers and pools using Fast Connection Failover (FCF). The drain_timeout can be set on the service, so stopping and relocating drains for this time by default. |
| stop_option |  |  | Provides options to terminate a session. The supported values are: TRANSACTIONAL drain_timeout applies to the transactions. After the drain_timeout expire, the sessions are immediately killed. IMMEDIATE The sessions are killed after drain_timeout expires. NONE Sessions are not terminated. However, these parameter values can be overridden using the command line. |
| commit_outcome |  |  | Determines whether transaction COMMIT outcome is accessible after the COMMIT has executed. While the database guarantees that COMMIT is durable, this ensures that the outcome of the COMMIT is durable. Applications use the feature to probe the status of the commit last executed after an outage, and is available to applications to determine an outcome. Note: Invoking the GET_LTXID_OUTCOME Procedure of the DBMS_APP_CONT package requires that the commit_outcome attribute be set. commit_outcome has no effect on active Data Guard and read-only databases. commit_outcome is only allowed on the database service and on user-defined database services |
| retention_timeout |  |  | Used in conjunction with commit_outcome , it determines the amount of time (in seconds) that the COMMIT_OUTCOME is retained. Default is 24 hours (86400). Maximum value is 30 days (2592000). |
| replay_initiation_timeout |  |  | For Application Continuity, replay_initiation_timeout is the difference between the time of original execution of first operation of a request, and the time that the replay is ready to start after a successful reconnect. Replay initiation time is measured from the time that the request was originally submitted until the time that replay has connected and is ready to replay. When replay is expected, keep this value high. Default is 900 seconds. |
| session_state_consistency |  |  | Describes how nontransactional is changed during a request (values are DYNAMIC or STATIC ). This parameter is considered only if failover_type is set to TRANSACTION for Application Continuity. Examples of session state are NLS settings, optimizer preferences, event settings, PL/SQL global variables, temporary tables, advanced queues, LOBs, and result cache. If these values change after the request starts, set to DYNAMIC (default). Almost all applications should use DYNAMIC mode. If you are unsure, use DYNAMIC mode. |
| sql_translation_name |  |  | Name of SQL translation unit |
| clb_goal |  |  | Method used for Connection Load Balancing (see Table 153-2 ) |
| placement_policy |  |  | NUMBER Placement policy for the service. Possible values: 0: PDB-NONE 1: PDB-SINGLETON 2: PDB-UNIFORM Note: Values other than 0 are applicable only in the ATP-Dedicated Cloud in an Oracle RAC environment. |

## Usage Notes

Note: Starting with Oracle Database 19c, customer use of the SERVICE_NAME parameter is deprecated. It can be desupported in a future release. It must not be used for high availability (HA) deployments. It is not supported to use service name parameter for any HA operations. This restriction includes FAN, load balancing, FAILOVER_TYPE , FAILOVER_RESTORE , SESSION_STATE_CONSISTENCY , and any other uses. You cannot use the second version of subprogram if your services are managed by Oracle Clusterware, Oracle Restart or Oracle Global Data Services. The version with the parameter array interface applies to databases that are not managed by Oracle Clusterware, Oracle Restart or Oracle Global Data Services. New attributes are only available using the parameter interface. Note: Starting with Oracle Database 19c, customer use of the SERVICE_NAME parameter is deprecated. It can be desupported in a future release. It must not be used for high availability (HA) deployments. It is not supported to use service name parameter for any HA operations. This restriction includes FAN, load balancing, FAILOVER_TYPE , FAILOVER_RESTORE , SESSION_STATE_CONSISTENCY , and any other uses. You cannot use the second version of subprogram if your services are managed by Oracle Clusterware, Oracle Restart or Oracle Global Data Services. The version with the parameter array interface applies to databases that are not managed by Oracle Clusterware, Oracle Restart or Oracle Global Data Services. New attributes are only available using the parameter interface. Syntax DBMS_SERVICE.CREATE_SERVICE( service_name IN VARCHAR2, network_name IN VARCHAR2, parameter_array IN TABLE OF VARCHAR2(100)); This overload is maintained for backward compatibility: DBMS_SERVICE.CREATE_SERVICE( service_name IN VARCHAR2, network_name IN VARCHAR2, goal IN NUMBER DEFAULT NULL, dtp IN BOOLEAN DEFAULT NULL, aq_ha_notifications IN BOOLEAN DEFAULT NULL, failover_method IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, failover_type IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, failover_retries IN NUMBER DEFAULT NULL, failover_delay IN NUMBER DEFAULT NULL, clb_goal IN NUMBER DEFAULT NULL, edition IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL); Parameters Table 153-6 CREATE_SERVICE Procedure Parameters Parameter Description service_name Name of the service, limited to 64 characters in the Data Dictionary network_name Network name of the service as used in SQLNet connect descriptors for client connections. This is limited to the NET service_names character set (see Oracle Database Net Services Reference ). parameter_array Associative array with name-value pairs of the service attributes. Supported names: goal dtp aq_ha_notifications failover_method failover_type failover_retries failover_restore failover_delay clb_goal edition commit_outcome retention_timeout replay_initiation_timeout session_state_consistency sql_translation_profile drain_timeout stop_option placement_policy goal Workload management goal directive for the service. Valid values: DBMS_SERVICE . GOAL_SERVICE_TIME DBMS_SERVICE . GOAL_THROUGHPUT DBMS_SERVICE . GOAL_NONE dtp Declares the service to be for X/Open Distributed Transaction Processing (DTP) or any distributed transaction (especially XA) aq_ha_notifications Determines whether Fast Application Notification (FAN) is enabled for OCI/OCCI/ODP. In Oracle Database12 c , FAN uses Oracle Notification Services (ONS). This parameter is still used to enable FAN. FAN is recommended for all High Availability systems, and is on by default for Application Continuity failover_method Failover TYPE for the service for Application Continuity and TAF. If the failover_type is set to TRANSACTION on the service, this automatically sets COMMIT_OUTCOME to TRUE . JDBC Replay Driver uses the FAILOVER_TYPE service attribute setting of TRANSACTION for TRANSACTION failover. OCI uses the older settings of SELECT and SESSION . The server only accepts FAILOVER_METHOD = BASIC with the TRANSACTION setting. failover_type TRANSACTION for Application Continuity. SELECT or BASIC for TAF. failover_retries Number of connection retries for Application Continuity and TAF. Using the failover_retries and failover_delay parameters, the failover can be delayed until the service is next available. This parameter is for connecting. It does not control the number of failovers, which is 3 for each incident for Application Continuity. failover_delay Delay in seconds between connection retries for Application Continuity and TAF. The default is 10 seconds for Application Continuity. Do not use a 0-second delay if the service needs time to failover and register. Long delays are good for planned outages and to failover to Data Guard. Short delays work well with RAC when the service is already available. edition If this argument has a non- NULL value, this provides the initial session edition for subsequent database connections using this service that do not specify an edition. If no value is specified, this argument has no effect. During service creation or modification, no validation is performed on this parameter. At connection time, if the connecting user does not have USE privilege on the edition, or the edition does not exist, this raises the error ORA-38802 (edition does not exist). drain_timeout If this parameter is defined, all sessions connected to that service are drained by the client drivers and pools using Fast Connection Failover (FCF). The drain_timeout can be set on the service, so stopping and relocating drains for this time by default. stop_option Provides options to terminate a session. The supported values are: TRANSACTIONAL drain_timeout applies to the transactions. After the drain_timeout expire, the sessions are immediately killed. IMMEDIATE The sessions are killed after drain_timeout expires. NONE Sessions are not terminated. However, these parameter values can be overridden using the command line. commit_outcome Determines whether transaction COMMIT outcome is accessible after the COMMIT has executed. While the database guarantees that COMMIT is durable, this ensures that the outcome of the COMMIT is durable. Applications use the feature to probe the status of the commit last executed after an outage, and is available to applications to determine an outcome. Note: Invoking the GET_LTXID_OUTCOME Procedure of the DBMS_APP_CONT package requires that the commit_outcome attribute be set. commit_outcome has no effect on active Data Guard and read-only databases. commit_outcome is only allowed on the database service and on user-defined database services retention_timeout Used in conjunction with commit_outcome , it determines the amount of time (in seconds) that the COMMIT_OUTCOME is retained. Default is 24 hours (86400). Maximum value is 30 days (2592000). replay_initiation_timeout For Application Continuity, replay_initiation_timeout is the difference between the time of original execution of first operation of a request, and the time that the replay is ready to start after a successful reconnect. Replay initiation time is measured from the time that the request was originally submitted until the time that replay has connected and is ready to replay. When replay is expected, keep this value high. Default is 900 seconds. session_state_consistency Describes how nontransactional is changed during a request (values are DYNAMIC or STATIC ). This parameter is considered only if failover_type is set to TRANSACTION for Application Continuity. Examples of session state are NLS settings, optimizer preferences, event settings, PL/SQL global variables, temporary tables, advanced queues, LOBs, and result cache. If these values change after the request starts, set to DYNAMIC (default). Almost all applications should use DYNAMIC mode. If you are unsure, use DYNAMIC mode. sql_translation_name Name of SQL translation unit clb_goal Method used for Connection Load Balancing (see Table 153-2 ) placement_policy NUMBER Placement policy for the service. Possible values: 0: PDB-NONE 1: PDB-SINGLETON 2: PDB-UNIFORM Note: Values other than 0 are applicable only in the ATP-Dedicated Cloud in an Oracle RAC environment. Note: Values other than 0 are applicable only in the ATP-Dedicated Cloud in an Oracle RAC environment.