---
id: 19c__DBMS_ADVISOR.SET_TASK_PARAMETER
name: DBMS_ADVISOR.SET_TASK_PARAMETER
object_type: plsql_procedure
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_ADVISOR
tags: [dbms_advisor]
source_file: DBMS_ADVISOR.html
---

# DBMS_ADVISOR.SET_TASK_PARAMETER

This procedure modifies a user parameter within an Advisor task or a template. A user parameter is a simple variable that stores various attributes that affect workload collection, tuning decisions and reporting.

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_ADVISOR.SET_TASK_PARAMETER (
   task_name           IN VARCHAR2
   parameter           IN VARCHAR2,
   value               IN VARCHAR2);

DBMS_ADVISOR.SET_TASK_PARAMETER (
   task_name           IN VARCHAR2
   parameter           IN VARCHAR2,
   value               IN NUMBER);
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Mode | Description |
|-----------|------|------|-------------|
| task_name | VARCHAR2 | IN | The Advisor task name that uniquely identifies an existing task. |
| parameter | VARCHAR2 | IN | The name of the task parameter to be modified. Parameter names are not case sensitive. Parameter names are unique to the task type, but not necessarily unique to all task types. Various task types may use the same parameter name for different purposes. |
| value | VARCHAR2) | IN | The value of the specified task parameter. The value can be specified as a string or a number. If the value is DEFAULT , the value will be reset to the default value. |

## Usage Notes

Syntax DBMS_ADVISOR.SET_TASK_PARAMETER ( task_name IN VARCHAR2 parameter IN VARCHAR2, value IN VARCHAR2); DBMS_ADVISOR.SET_TASK_PARAMETER ( task_name IN VARCHAR2 parameter IN VARCHAR2, value IN NUMBER); Parameters Table 16-34 SET_TASK_PARAMETER Procedure Parameters Parameter Description task_name The Advisor task name that uniquely identifies an existing task. parameter The name of the task parameter to be modified. Parameter names are not case sensitive. Parameter names are unique to the task type, but not necessarily unique to all task types. Various task types may use the same parameter name for different purposes. value The value of the specified task parameter. The value can be specified as a string or a number. If the value is DEFAULT , the value will be reset to the default value. Usage Notes A task cannot be modified unless it is in its initial state. See RESET_TASK Procedure to set a task to its initial state. See your Advisor-specific documentation for further information on using this procedure. SQL Access Advisor Task Parameters Table 16-35 lists SQL Access Advisor task parameters. Table 16-35 SQL Access Advisor Task Parameters Parameter Description ANALYSIS_SCOPE A comma-separated list that specifies the tuning artifacts to consider during analysis. The possible values are: ALL Short name for specifying INDEX , MVIEW , TABLE , and PARTITION . EVALUATION Causes a read-only evaluation of the specified workload. No new recommendations will be made. Can only be specified alone. INDEX Allows the SQL Access Advisor to recommend index structure changes. MVIEW Allows the SQL Access Advisor to recommend materialized view and log changes. PARTITION Allows the SQL Access Advisor to recommend partition options. Use this in conjunction with the INDEX , MVIEW , and TABLE options. TABLE Allows the SQL Access Advisor to make base-table recommendations. In this release, the only base-table recommendation is partitioning. Using the new keywords, the following combinations are valid: INDEX MVIEW INDEX , PARTITION INDEX , MVIEW , PARTITION INDEX , TABLE , PARTITION MVIEW , PARTITION MIVEW , TABLE , PARTITION INDEX , MVIEW , TABLE , PARTITION TABLE , PARTITION EVALUATION The default value is INDEX . The data type is STRINGLIST . CREATION_COST When set to true (default), the SQL Access Advisor will weigh the cost of creation of the access structure (index or materialized view) against the frequency of the query and potential improvement in the query execution time. When set to false , the cost of creation is ignored. The data type is STRING . DAYS_TO_EXPIRE Specifies the expiration time in days for the current SQL Access Advisor task. The value is relative to the last modification date. Once the task expires, it will become a candidate for removal by an automatic purge operation. Specifies the expiration time in days for the current Access Advisor task. The value is relative to the last modification date. The data type is NUMBER . Once the task expires, it becomes a candidate for removal by an automatic purge operation. The possible values are: an integer in the range of 0 to 2147483647 ADVISOR_UNLIMITED ADVISOR_UNUSED The default value is 30. DEF_EM_TEMPLATE Contains the default task or template name from which the Enterprise Manager SQL Access Advisor Wizard reads its initial values. The default value is SQLACCESS_EMTASK . The data type is STRING . DEF_INDEX_OWNER Specifies the default owner for new index recommendations. When a script is created, this value will be used to qualify the index name. Possible values are: Existing schema name. Quoted identifiers are supported. ADVISOR_UNUSED The default value is ADVISOR_UNUSED . The data type is STRING . DEF_INDEX_TABLESPACE Specifies the default tablespace for new index recommendations. When a script is created, this value will be used to specify a tablespace clause. Possible values are: Existing tablespace name. Quoted identifiers are supported. ADVISOR_UNUSED No tablespace clause will be present in the script for indexes. The default value is ADVISOR_UNUSED . The data type is STRING . DEF_MVIEW_OWNER Specifies the default owner for new materialized view recommendations. When a script is created, this value will be used to qualify the materialized view name. Possible values are: Existing schema name. Quoted identifiers are supported. ADVISOR_UNUSED The default value is ADVISOR_UNUSED . The data type is STRING . DEF_MVIEW_TABLESPACE Specifies the default tablespace for new materialized view recommendations. When a script is created, this value will be used to specify a tablespace clause. Possible values are Existing tablespace name. Quoted identifiers are supported. ADVISOR_UNUSED . No tablespace clause will be present in the script for materialized view logs. The default value is ADVISOR_UNUSED . The data type is STRING . DEF_MVLOG_TABLSPACE Specifies the default tablespace for new materialized view log recommendations. When a script is created, this value will be used to specify a tablespace clause. Possible values are: Existing tablespace name. Quoted identifiers are supported. ADVISOR_UNUSED . No tablespace clause will be present in the script for materialized view logs. The default value is ADVISOR_UNUSED . The data type is STRING . DEF_PARTITION_TABLESPACE Specifies the default tablespace for new partitioning recommendations. When a script is created, this value will be used to specify a tablespace clause. Possible values are: Existing tablespace name. Quoted identifiers are supported. ADVISOR_UNUSED . No tablespace clause will be present in the script for materialized views. The default value is ADVISOR_UNUSED . The data type is STRING . DML_VOLATILITY When set to TRUE , the SQL Access Advisor will consider the impact of index maintenance and materialized view refresh in determining the recommendations. It will limit the access structure recommendations involving columns or tables that are frequently updated. For example, if there are too many DML statements on a column, then it may favor a B-tree index over a bitmap index on that column. For this process to be effective, the workload must include DML (insert/update/delete/merge/direct path inserts) statements that represent the update behavior of the application. The data type is STRING . See the related parameter refresh_mode . END_TIME Specifies an end time for selecting SQL statements. If the statement did not execute on or before the specified time, it will not be processed. Each date must be in the standard Oracle form of MM-DD-YYYY HH24:MI:SS, where: DD is the numeric date MM is the numeric month YYYY is the numeric year HH is the hour in 24 hour format MI is the minute SS is the second The data type is STRING . EVALUATION_ONLY This parameter is maintained for backward compatibility. All values will be translated and placed into the ANALYSIS_SCOPE task parameter. If set to TRUE , causes SQL Access Advisor to analyze the workload, but only comment on how well the current configuration is supporting it. No tuning recommendations will be generated. Possible values are: FALSE TRUE The default value is FALSE . The data type is STRING . EXECUTION_TYPE This parameter is maintained for backward compatibility. All values will be translated and placed into the ANALYSIS_SCOPE task parameter. The translated values are: FULL => FULL INDEX_ONLY => INDEX MVIEW_ONLY => MVIEW MVIEW_LOG_ONLY => MVIEW_LOG_ONLY The type of recommendations that is desired. Possible values: FULL All supported recommendation types will be considered. INDEX_ONLY The SQL Access Advisor will only consider index solutions as recommendations. MVIEW_ONLY The SQL Access Advisor will consider materialized view and materialized view log solutions as recommendations. MVIEW_LOG_ONLY The SQL Access Advisor will only consider materialized view log solutions as recommendations. The default value is FULL . The data type is STRINGLIST . IMPLEMENT_EXIT_ON_ERROR When performing an IMPLEMENT_TASK operation, this parameter will control behavior when an action fails to implement. If set to TRUE , IMPLEMENT_TASK will stop on the first unexpected error. The possible values are: TRUE FALSE The default value is TRUE . The data type is STRING . INDEX_NAME_TEMPLATE Specifies the method by which new index names are formed. If the TASK_ID is omitted from the template, names generated by two concurrently executing SQL Access Advisor tasks may conflict and cause undesirable effects. So it is recommended that you include the TASK_ID in the template. Once formatted, the maximum size of a name is 30 characters. Valid keywords are: Any literal value up to 22 characters. TABLE Causes the parent table name to be substituted into the index name. If the name is too long, it will be trimmed to fit. TASK_ID Causes the current task identifier number to be inserted in hexadecimal form. SEQ Causes a sequence number to be inserted in hexadecimal form. Because this number is used to guarantee uniqueness, it is a required token. The default template is table _IDX$$_ task_idsequence . The data type is STRING . INVALID_ACTION_LIST Contains a fully qualified list of actions that are not eligible for processing in a SQL workload object. The list elements are comma-delimited, and quoted names are supported. An action can be any string. If an action is not quoted, it will be changed to uppercase lettering and stripped of leading and trailing spaces. An action string is not scanned for correctness. During a task execution, if a SQL statement's action matches a name in the action list, it will not be processed by the task. An action name is case sensitive. The possible values are: single action comma-delimited action list ADVISOR_UNUSED The default value is ADVISOR_UNUSED . The data type is STRINGLIST . INVALID_MODULE_LIST Contains a fully qualified list of modules that are not eligible for processing in a SQL workload object. The list elements are comma-delimited, and quoted names are supported. A module can be any string. If a module is not quoted, it will be changed to uppercase lettering and stripped of leading and trailing spaces. A module string is not scanned for correctness. During a task execution, if a SQL statement's module matches a name in the list, it will not be processed by the task. A module name is case sensitive. The possible values are: single application comma-delimited module list ADVISOR_UNUSED The default value is ADVISOR_UNUSED . The data type is STRINGLIST . INVALID_SQLSTRING_LIST Contains a fully qualified list of text strings that are not eligible for processing in a SQL workload object. The list elements are comma-delimited, and quoted values are supported. A SQL string can be any string. If a string is not quoted, it will be changed to uppercase lettering and stripped of leading and trailing spaces. A SQL string is not scanned for correctness. During a task execution, if a SQL statement contains a string in the SQL string list, it will not be processed by the task. The possible values are: single string comma-delimited string list ADVISOR_UNUSED The default value is ADVISOR_UNUSED . The data type is STRINGLIST . INVALID_USERNAME_LIST Contains a fully qualified list of user names that are not eligible for processing in a SQL workload object. The list elements are comma-delimited, and quoted names are supported. During a task execution, if a SQL statement's user name matches a name in the user name list, it will not be processed by the task. A user name is not case sensitive unless it is quoted. The possible values are: single user name comma-delimited user name list ADVISOR_UNUSED The default value is ADVISOR_UNUSED . The data type is STRINGLIST . JOURNALING Controls the logging of messages to the journal ( DBA_ADVISOR_JOURNAL and USER_ADVISOR_JOURNAL views). The higher the setting, the more information is logged to the journal. Possible values are: UNUSED : no journal messages FATAL : explanation of fatal conditions ERROR : explanation of errors WARNING : explanation of warnings INFORMATION : information message INFORMATION2 : common information INFORMATION3 : common information INFORMATION4 : common information INFORMATION5 : common information INFORMATION6 : common information Each journal value represents all recorded messages at that level or lower. For example, when choosing WARNING , all messages marked WARNING as well as ERROR and FATAL will be recorded in the repository. INFORMATION6 represents the most thorough message recording and UNUSED is the least. The default value is INFORMATION . The data type is NUMBER . LIMITED_PARTITION_SCHEMES User can suggest that the Partition Expert cut off the number of partitioning schemes to investigate. This can help with cutting down the run time of the advisor. Possible values are: An integer in the range of 1 to 10 ADVISOR_UNUSED The default value is ADVISOR_UNUSED . The data type is NUMBER . MAX_NUMBER_PARTITIONS Limits the number of partitions the advisor will recommend for any base table, index, or materialized view. Possible values are: An integer in the range of 1 to 4294967295 ADVISOR_UNLIMITED ADVISOR_UNUSED The default value is ADVISOR_UNLIMITED . The data type is NUMBER . MODE Specifies the mode by which Access Advisor will operate during an analysis. Valid values are: LIMITED Indicates the Advisor will attempt to a quick job by limiting the search-space of candidate recommendations, and correspondingly, the results may be of a low quality. COMPREHENSIVE Indicates the Advisor will search a large pool of candidates that may take long to run, but the resulting recommendations will be of the highest quality. The default value is COMPREHENSIVE . The data type is STRING . MVIEW_NAME_TEMPLATE Specifies the method by which new materialized view names are formed. If the TASK_ID is omitted from the template, names generated by two concurrently executing SQL Access Advisor tasks may conflict and cause undesirable effects. So it is recommended that you include the TASK_ID in the template. The format is any combination of keyword tokens and literals. However, once formatted, the maximum size of a name is 30 characters. Valid tokens are: Any literal value up to 22 characters. TASK_ID Causes the current task identifier number to be inserted in hexadecimal form. SEQ Causes a sequence number to be inserted in hexadecimal form. Because this number is used to guarantee uniqueness, it is a required token. The default template is: MV$$_ task_idsequence . The data type is STRING . ORDER_LIST This parameter has been deprecated. Contains the primary natural order in which the Access Advisor processes workload elements during the analysis operation. To determine absolute natural order, Access Advisor sorts the workload using ORDER_LIST values. A comma must separate multiple order keys. Possible values are: BUFFER_GETS Sets the order using the SQL statement's buffer-get count value. CPU_TIME Sets the order using the SQL statement's CPU time value. DISK_READS Sets the order using the SQL statement's disk-read count value. ELAPSED_TIME Sets the order using the SQL statement's elapsed time value. EXECUTIONS Sets the order using the SQL statement's execution frequency value. OPTIMIZER_COST Sets the order using the SQL statement's optimizer cost value. I/O Sets the order using the SQL statement's I/O count value. PRIORITY Sets the order using the user-supplied business priority value. All values are accessed in descending order, where a high value is considered more interesting than a low value. The default value is PRIORITY , OPTIMIZER_COST . The data type is STRINGLIST . PARTITION_NAME_TEMPLATE Specifies the method by which new partition names are formed. The format is any combination of keyword tokens and literals. However, once formatted, the maximum size of a name is 30 characters. Valid tokens are: Any literal value up to 22 characters. table - Causes the parent table name to be substituted into the partition name. If the name is too long, it will be trimmed to fit. task_id - Causes the current task identifier number to be inserted in hexadecimal form. sequence - Causes a sequence number to be inserted in hexadecimal form. Because this number is used to guarantee uniqueness, it is a required token. The default template is PTN$$_ table_task_idsequence . The data type is STRING . PARTITIONING_GOAL Specifies the approach used to make partitioning recommendations. One possible value is PERFORMANCE , which is the default. The data type is STRING . PARTITIONING_TYPES Specifies the type of partitioning used. Possible values are RANGE and HASH . The data type is STRING . RANKING_MEASURE Contains the primary natural order in which the SQL Access Advisor processes workload elements during the analysis operation. To determine absolute natural order, SQL Access Advisor sorts the workload using RANKING_MEASURE values. A comma must separate multiple order keys. Possible values are: BUFFER_GETS Sets the order using the SQL statement's buffer-get count value. CPU_TIME Sets the order using the SQL statement's CPU time value. DISK_READS Sets the order using the SQL statement's disk-read count value. ELAPSED_TIME Sets the order using the SQL statement's elapsed time value. EXECUTIONS Sets the order using the SQL statement's elapsed time value. OPTIMIZER_COST Sets the order using the SQL statement's optimizer cost value. PRIORITY Sets the order using the user-supplied business priority value. All values are accessed in descending order, where a high value is considered more interesting than a low value. The default value is PRIORITY , OPTIMIZER_COST . The data type is STRINGLIST . RECOMMEND_MV_EXACT_TEXT_MATCH When considering candidate materialized views, exact text match solutions will only be included if this parameter contains TRUE . The possible values are: TRUE FALSE The default value is TRUE . The data type is STRING . RECOMMENDED_TABLESPACES Allows the SQL Access Advisor to recommend optimal tablespaces for any partitioning scheme. If this is not set, the SQL Access Advisor will simply recommend a partitioning method but give no advice on physical storage. Possible values are: TRUE FALSE (the default) The data type is STRING . REFRESH_MODE Specifies whether materialized views are refreshed ON_DEMAND or ON_COMMIT . This will be used to weigh the impact of materialized view refresh when the parameter dml_volatility is set to TRUE . Possible values are: ON_DEMAND ON_COMMIT The default value is ON_DEMAND . The data type is STRING . REPORT_DATE_FORMAT This is the default date and time formatting template. The default format is DD/MM/YYYYHH24:MI . The data type is STRING . SHOW_RETAINS Controls the display of RETAIN actions within an implementation script and the SQL Access Advisor wizard. The possible values are: TRUE FALSE The default value is TRUE . The data type is STRING . SQL_LIMIT Specifies the number of SQL statements to be analyzed. The SQL_LIMIT filter is applied after all other filters have been applied. For example, if only statements referencing the table hr.employees are to be accepted, the SQL_LIMIT value will be only apply to those statements. When used in conjunction with the parameter ORDER_LIST , SQL Access Advisor will process the most interesting SQL statements by ordering the statements according to the specified sort keys. The possible values are: An integer in the range of 1 to 2147483647 ADVISOR_UNLIMITED ADVISOR_UNUSED The default value is ADVISOR_UNUSED . The data type is NUMBER . START_TIME Specifies a start time for selecting SQL statements. If the statement did not execute on or before the specified time, it will not be processed. Each date must be in the standard Oracle form of MM-DD-YYYY HH24:MI:SS, where: DD is the numeric date MM is the numeric month YYYY is the numeric year HH is the hour in 24 hour format MI is the minute SS is the second The data type is STRING . STORAGE_CHANGE Contains the amount of space adjustment that can be consumed by SQL Access Advisor recommendations. Zero or negative values are only permitted if the workload scope is marked as FULL . When the SQL Access Advisor produces a set of recommendations, the resultant physical structures must be able to fit into the budgeted space. A space budget is computed by adding the STORAGE_CHANGE value to the space quantity currently used by existing access structures. A negative STORAGE_CHANGE value may force SQL Access Advisor to remove existing structures in order to shrink space demand. Possible values: Any valid integer including negative values, zero and positive values. The default value is ADVISOR_UNLIMITED . The data type is NUMBER . TIME_LIMIT Specifies the time in minutes that the SQL Access Advisor can use to perform an analysis operation. If the SQL Access Advisor reaches a specified recommendation quality or all input data has been analyzed, processing will terminate regardless of any remaining time. Possible values: An integer in the range of 1 to 10,000 ADVISOR_UNLIMITED The default value is 720 (12 hours). The data type is NUMBER . Note that specifying ADVISOR_UNLIMITED has the same effect as setting the parameter to the maximum of 10,000 (about one week). The SQL Access Advisor will never run for more than 10,000 minutes. VALID_ACTION_LIST Contains a fully qualified list of actions that are eligible for processing in a SQL workload object. The list elements are comma-delimited, and quoted names are supported. An action can be any string. If an action is not quoted, it will be changed to uppercase lettering and stripped of leading and trailing spaces. An action string is not scanned for correctness. During a task execution, if a SQL statement's action does not match a name in the action list, it will not be processed by the task. An action name is case sensitive. The possible values are: single action comma-delimited action list ADVISOR_UNUSED The default value is ADVISOR_UNUSED . The data type is STRINGLIST . VALID_MODULE_LIST Contains a fully qualified list of application modules that are eligible for processing in a SQL workload object. The list elements are comma-delimited, and quoted names are supported. A module can be any string. If a module is not quoted, it will be changed to uppercase lettering and stripped of leading and trailing spaces. A module string is not scanned for correctness. During a task execution, if a SQL statement's module does not match a name in the module list, it will not be processed by the task. A module name is case sensitive. The possible values are: single application comma-delimited module list ADVISOR_UNUSED The default value is ADVISOR_UNUSED . The data type is STRINGLIST . VALID_SQLSTRING_LIST Contains a fully qualified list of text strings that are eligible for processing in a SQL workload object. The list elements are comma-delimited, and quoted names are supported. A SQL string can be any string. If a string is not quoted, it will be changed to uppercase lettering and stripped of leading and trailing spaces. A SQL string is not scanned for correctness. During a task execution, if a SQL statement does not contain string in the SQL string list, it will not be processed by the task. The possible values are: single string comma-delimited string list ADVISOR_UNUSED The default value is ADVISOR_UNUSED . The data type is STRINGLIST . VALID_TABLE_LIST Contains a fully qualified list of tables that are eligible for tuning. The list elements are comma-delimited, and quoted identifiers are supported. Wildcard specifications are supported for tables. The default value is all tables within the user's scope are eligible for tuning. Supported wildcard character is % . A % wildcard matches any set of consecutive characters. When a SQL statement is processed, it will not be accepted unless at least one referenced table is specified in the valid table list. If the list is unused, then all table references within a SQL statement are considered valid. The valid syntax for a table reference is: schema.table schema schema.% (equivalent to schema ) comma-delimited action list ADVISOR_UNUSED The possible values are: single table reference comma-delimited reference list ADVISOR_UNUSED The default value is ADVISOR_UNUSED . The data type is TABLELIST . VALID_USERNAME_LIST Contains a fully qualified list of user names that are eligible for processing in a SQL workload object. The list elements are comma-delimited, and quoted names are supported. During a task execution, if a SQL statement's user name does not match a name in the user name list, it will not be processed by the task. A user name is not case sensitive unless it is quoted. The possible values are: single user name comma-delimited user name list ADVISOR_UNUSED The default value is ADVISOR_UNUSED . The data type is STRINGLIST . WORKLOAD_SCOPE Describes the level of application coverage the workload represents. Possible values are FULL and PARTIAL . FULL Should be used if the workload contains all interesting application SQL statements for the targeted tables. PARTIAL (default) Should be used if the workload contains anything less than a full representation of the interesting application SQL statements for the targeted tables. The data type is STRING . Segment Advisor Parameters Table 16-36 lists the input task parameters that can be set in the Segment Advisor using the SET_TASK_PARAMETER procedure. Table 16-36 Segment Advisor Task Parameters Parameter Description MODE The data to use for analysis. The default value is COMPREHENSIVE , and the possible values are: LIMITED : Analysis restricted to statistics available in the Automatic Workload Repository COMPREHENSIVE : Analysis based on sampling and Automatic Workload Repository statistics TIME_LIST The time limit for which the Advisor should run. It is specified in seconds, and the default and possible values are UNLIMITED . RECOMMEND_ALL Whether to generate recommendations for all segments. The default value is TRUE . If set to TRUE , it generates recommendations all segments specified by the user. If set to FALSE , it generates recommendations for only those objects that are eligible for shrink.