---
id: 19c__DBMS_CUBE.CREATE_EXPORT_OPTIONS
name: DBMS_CUBE.CREATE_EXPORT_OPTIONS
object_type: plsql_procedure
oracle_version: 19c
doc_type: plsql_packages
parent: DBMS_CUBE
tags: [dbms_cube]
source_file: DBMS_CUBE.html
---

# DBMS_CUBE.CREATE_EXPORT_OPTIONS

This procedure creates an input XML document that describes processing options for the EXPORT_XML Procedure and the EXPORT_XML_TO_FILE Procedure.

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_CUBE.CREATE_EXPORT_OPTIONS (
          out_options_xml        IN/OUT  CLOB,
          target_version         IN      VARCHAR2  DEFAULT NULL,
          suppress_owner         IN      BOOLEAN   DEFAULT FALSE,
          suppress_namespace     IN      BOOLEAN   DEFAULT FALSE,
          preserve_table_owners  IN      BOOLEAN   DEFAULT FALSE,
          metadata_changes       IN      CLOB      DEFAULT NULL);
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Mode | Description |
|-----------|------|------|-------------|
| out_options_xml | IN | IN | Contains the generated XML document, which can be passed into the options_xml parameter of the EXPORT_XML Procedure . |
| target_version | VARCHAR2 | IN | Specifies the version of Oracle Database in which the XML document generated by EXPORT_XML or EXPORT_XML_TO_FILE will be imported. You can specify two to five digits, such as 12.1 or 12.1.0.1.0. This parameter defaults to the current database version, and so can typically be omitted. |
| suppress_owner | BOOLEAN | IN | Controls the use of the Owner attribute in XML elements and the owner qualifier in object names. Enter True to drop the owner from the XML, or enter False to retain it. Enter True if you plan to import the exported metadata into a different schema. |
| suppress_namespace | BOOLEAN | IN | Controls the use of Namespace attributes in XML elements and the namespace qualifier in object names. Enter True to drop the namespace from the XML, or enter False to retain it (default). Enter True when upgrading to Oracle OLAP 12 c metadata. Namespaces allow objects created in Oracle 10 g to coexist with objects created in Oracle 12 c . You cannot set or change namespaces. |
| preserve_table_owners | BOOLEAN | IN | Controls the use of the owner in qualifying table names in the mapping elements, such as GLOBAL.UNITS_HISTORY_FACT instead of UNITS_HISTORY_FACT. Enter True to retain the table owner, or enter False to default to the current schema for table mappings. If you plan to import the exported metadata to a different schema, you must set this option to True to load data from tables and views in the original schema, unless the destination schema has its own copies of the tables and views. |
| metadata_changes | CLOB | IN | Contains an 12 c XML description of an object that overwrites the exported object description. The XML document must contain all parent XML elements of the modified element with the attributes needed to uniquely identify them. Use the Name attribute if it exists. See the Examples. |

## Usage Notes

Syntax DBMS_CUBE.CREATE_EXPORT_OPTIONS ( out_options_xml IN/OUT CLOB, target_version IN VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL, suppress_owner IN BOOLEAN DEFAULT FALSE, suppress_namespace IN BOOLEAN DEFAULT FALSE, preserve_table_owners IN BOOLEAN DEFAULT FALSE, metadata_changes IN CLOB DEFAULT NULL); Parameters Table 44-4 CREATE_EXPORT_OPTIONS Procedure Parameters Parameter Description out_options_xml Contains the generated XML document, which can be passed into the options_xml parameter of the EXPORT_XML Procedure . target_version Specifies the version of Oracle Database in which the XML document generated by EXPORT_XML or EXPORT_XML_TO_FILE will be imported. You can specify two to five digits, such as 12.1 or 12.1.0.1.0. This parameter defaults to the current database version, and so can typically be omitted. suppress_owner Controls the use of the Owner attribute in XML elements and the owner qualifier in object names. Enter True to drop the owner from the XML, or enter False to retain it. Enter True if you plan to import the exported metadata into a different schema. suppress_namespace Controls the use of Namespace attributes in XML elements and the namespace qualifier in object names. Enter True to drop the namespace from the XML, or enter False to retain it (default). Enter True when upgrading to Oracle OLAP 12 c metadata. Namespaces allow objects created in Oracle 10 g to coexist with objects created in Oracle 12 c . You cannot set or change namespaces. preserve_table_owners Controls the use of the owner in qualifying table names in the mapping elements, such as GLOBAL.UNITS_HISTORY_FACT instead of UNITS_HISTORY_FACT. Enter True to retain the table owner, or enter False to default to the current schema for table mappings. If you plan to import the exported metadata to a different schema, you must set this option to True to load data from tables and views in the original schema, unless the destination schema has its own copies of the tables and views. metadata_changes Contains an 12 c XML description of an object that overwrites the exported object description. The XML document must contain all parent XML elements of the modified element with the attributes needed to uniquely identify them. Use the Name attribute if it exists. See the Examples. Examples The following example generates an XML document of export options: DECLARE optionsClob CLOB; BEGIN dbms_lob.createtemporary(optionsClob, false, dbms_lob.CALL); dbms_cube.create_export_options(out_options_xml=>optionsClob, suppress_namespace=>TRUE); dbms_output.put_line(optionsClob); END; / The DBMS_OUTPUT.PUT_LINE procedure displays this XML document (formatted for readability: <?xml version="1.0"?> <Export TargetVersion="12.1.0.1"> <ExportOptions> <Option Name="SuppressOwner" Value="FALSE"/> <Option Name="SuppressNamespace" Value="TRUE"/> <Option Name="PreserveTableOwners" Value="FALSE"/> </ExportOptions> </Export> The next example generates an XML document with a metadata change to the mapping of the American long description attribute of the CHANNEL dimension. DECLARE importClob clob; exportClob clob; overClob clob; exportOptClob clob; importOptClob clob; BEGIN dbms_lob.createtemporary(overClob, TRUE); dbms_lob.open(overClob, DBMS_LOB.LOB_READWRITE); dbms_lob.writeappend(overClob,58, '<Metadata Version="1.3" MinimumDatabaseVersion="12.1.0.1">'); dbms_lob.writeappend(overClob,34, '<StandardDimension Name="CHANNEL">'); dbms_lob.writeappend(overClob,75, '<Description Type="Description" Language="AMERICAN" Value="Sales Channel"/>'); dbms_lob.writeappend(overClob,20, '</StandardDimension>'); dbms_lob.writeappend(overClob,11, '</Metadata>'); dbms_lob.close(overClob); -- Enable Oracle Database 12c Release 1 (12.1) clients to access 10g metadata dbms_cube.initialize_cube_upgrade; -- Create a CLOB containing the export options dbms_lob.createtemporary(exportOptClob, TRUE); dbms_cube.create_export_options(out_options_xml=>exportOptClob, suppress_namespace=>TRUE, metadata_changes=>overClob); -- Create a CLOB containing the import options dbms_lob.createtemporary(importOptClob, TRUE); dbms_cube.create_import_options(out_options_xml=>importOptClob, rename_table => 'MY_OBJECT_MAP'); -- Create CLOBs for the metadata dbms_lob.createtemporary(importClob, TRUE); dbms_lob.createtemporary(exportClob, TRUE); -- Export metadata from a 10g analytic workspace to a CLOB dbms_cube.export_xml(object_ids=>'GLOBAL_AW', options_xml=>exportOptClob, out_xml=>exportClob); -- Import metadata from the CLOB dbms_cube.import_xml(in_xml => exportClob, options_xml=>importOptClob, out_xml=>importClob); -- Load and aggregate the data dbms_cube.build(script=>'UNITS_CUBE, PRICE_AND_COST_CUBE'); END; / The following is the content of exportClob (formatting added for readability). The XML document changes the description of Channel to Sales Channel. <Metadata Version="1.3" MinimumDatabaseVersion="12.1.0.1"> <StandardDimension Name="CHANNEL"> <Description Type="Description" Language="AMERICAN" Value="Sales Channel"/> </StandardDimension> </Metadata>